O-001
Translatable Programming of Cardiovascular Reactivity in Adult
Offspring in an Ovine Model of Maternal Obesity during Pregnancy.
S. H. Davison†, R. C. Crew, Y. Niu, S. G. Ford, C. L. Cahen, A. L.K.
Cochrane, M. P. Murphy, S. E. Ozanne, D. A. Giussani∗. University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Despite obesity rising worldwide, the mechanisms
linking obesity during pregnancy to increased cardiovascular risk in
offspring remain unclear. Since sheep and humans share similar prenatal
cardiovascular developmental milestones (Morrison et al. Am J Physiol
315(6):R1123-53, 2018), studies using pregnant sheep to explore
developmental origins of cardiovascular dysfunction are of high human
translational value. The aim of the current study was to establish a novel
ovine model to test the hypothesis that maternal obesity during pregnancy
leads to sex-dependent alterations in in vivo cardiovascular reactivity in
adult offspring.
Methods: Welsh mountain ewes were fed for 60 days pre-pregnancy
and throughout gestation a control diet (C, recommended daily 200g
concentrate ration and ad lib hay), or an obesogenic diet (Ob, ad lib
access to concentrates and hay). Male (C, n=6, Ob, n=6) and female (C
n=6, Ob n=3) lambs delivered naturally at term were weaned at 3 months
and raised to adulthood with ad lib access to grass. At 9 months of age,
lambs underwent surgery under general anaesthesia to implant vascular
catheters and a Transonic flow probe around a femoral artery. At least 5
days after surgery, cardiovascular function was determined in response
to bolus doses of the α1-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine (PE), or an
i.v. infusion with the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP).
Changes in mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate were correlated
for baroreflex function. Data (mean±SEM) were analysed by Two-Way
ANOVA with Tukey’s post hoc test.
Results: Relative to controls, male (C vs. OB, mean arterial pressure
90.4±2.9 vs. 97.2±1.3 mmHg) and female (80.8±0.3 vs. 88.9±0.9 mmHg)
lambs of obese pregnancy were hypertensive (P<0.05). However, only
male lambs of obese pregnancy showed markedly increased pressor
responses to PE (C vs OB, 5.6±2.1 vs. 16.9±4.9 mmHg change at
maximum dose, P<0.05), while female lambs showed no differences
between groups. Similarly, only male offspring of obese pregnancy showed
enhanced tachycardia in response to a comparable fall in arterial pressure
during SNP infusion, signifying enhanced sympathetic cardiac baroreflex
sensitivity (C vs. OB, -5.5±3.6 vs. 34.8±5.0 beats.min-1 increment at 10
min of infusion, P<0.05). In contrast, female lambs showed no differences
in heart rate during SNP infusion between groups.
Conclusion: Maternal obesity during pregnancy programmes sexdependent
alterations in cardiovascular reactivity measured in vivo in an
ovine model with human translational potential. Greater blood pressure
reactivity to sympathetic vasoconstrictors and an increased gain of the
sympathetic component of the cardiac baroreflex may explain greater
susceptibility to cardiovascular disease in adult male offspring of obese
pregnancy.
Support: Medical Research Council.
O-002
High-Dimensional Imaging Reveals Eutopic Endometrial Cell
Frequency and Functional Shifts in Endometriosis. Maïgane G Diop†,1
Dorien Feyaerts†,1 Jakob Einhaus†,1 Juan Irwin,2 Adam Bonham,1 Ina
Stelzer,1 David Stevenson∗,1 Marina Sirota∗,2 Catherine Blish∗,1 Linda
Giudice∗,2 Brice Gaudillière†.1 1Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, CA, United States; 2University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis (EM), a chronic pain disorder characterized
by growth of translocated endometrial tissue in ectopic locations, currently
requires laparascopic lesion visualization for definitive diagnosis, which is
costly and can be difficult to access. Prior work revealed cell phenotypic
perturbations in the eutopic endometrium (EuE) of EM cases. However,
understanding the spatial context is essential for the development of a
EuE-based diagnostic test for endometriosis.
Methods: Multiplexed imaging mass cytometry (IMC) was used to
generate a comprehensive spatial proteomic profile of the EuE (FFPEpreserved)
from 39 control and 37 EM cases, simultaneously capturing
frequency and function of major and minor immune and stromal cell
types and spatial metavariables within tissue zone (i.e., intragland, gland
front, and stromal). Mann-Whitney tests (p-value of < 0.05, effect size of
> 0.4 by rank-biserial correlation) identified features that differ reliably
between EM and Control groups.
Results: Preliminary analysis revealed distinct cell subtype and functional
variations that were not attributable to differences in proportional area
of gland, stroma, or gland front, nor gross immune cell composition
differences between cases and controls. More meaningfully, tissue
zonal subsetting revealed clear differences in the EuE between cases
and controls, implying coordinated cell state and interaction differences
as opposed to mere morphological differences. At the gland front, a
prevalence of FoxP3+ CD4 T cells and CD56br CD16- NK cells and
absence of CD11b+ T Cells could be observed in the EuE of EM cases
compared to controls. Activated CD8 T cells neighboring other activated
CD8T cells at the gland front were more frequently observed in controls. In
the stroma, CD56br CD16- NK cells and FoxP3+ CD8 T cells were more
prevalent in EM EuE. These CD8 T cells were found to express estrogen
receptor alpha at higher levels. Stromal NK cells showed increased
NKG2A, IFNγ, and Granzyme B expression in EM cases. Finally, cell
neighborhoods in EuE of EM cases showed increased M2 macrophage
and T regulatory cell interactions when compared to controls.
Conclusion: Our preliminary results show a shift towards increased
immune regulation in the EuE of EM cases, shown by increased regulatory
T and regulatory NK cell but decreased activated T cell presence
and function in the stroma and gland front. This work establishes a
computational approach for in-depth and spatially-informed investigation
of immune cell dynamics in the EuE and will yield unprecedented insight
into perturbed immune-stromal prevalence, function and interaction in
EM, towards an EuE-based diagnostic test.
O-003
Revolutionizing Endometrial Repair: Hybrid Endometrial-Derived
Hydrogel and Human Endometrial Organoids Synergize for Uterine
Regeneration in an Immunocompetent Murine Model. Clara Bueno-
Fernandez†,1,2 María Gómez-Álvarez†,1 Marcos Agustina-Hernández†,1
Emilio Francés-Herrero†,1 Ana Díaz,2 Amparo Faus,1 Paula Alonso-Frías†,1
Nadaya Corpas,1 Antonio Pellicer∗,3 Irene Cervelló∗.1 1IVIRMA Global
Research Alliance, IVI Foundation, IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2Universitat
de València, Valencia, Spain; 3IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVIRMA
Roma, Rome, Italy.
Introduction: Endometrial pathologies, such as Asherman’s syndrome
or endometrial atrophy, are main causes of high infertility rates. The lack
of effective treatments emphasizes the urgent need for novel regenerative
therapies. In this context, human endometrial organoids (hEOs) are
promising candidates for tissue regeneration, since they offer a native
and partially undifferentiated cellular source with high proliferative
capacity. In addition, the combination of hEOs with hybrid endometrialderived
hydrogel (PM+EndoECM) aims to enhance proliferation and
differentiation through its rich biochemical composition. Here, we exploit
the co-injection of hEOs with PM+EndoECM as a potential treatment for
endometrial damage in a murine model.
Methods: Decellularized porcine endometrium was used to create the
hybrid endometrial-derived hydrogel and then mixed with PuraMatrix
(50:50) to obtain the final PM+EndoECM. After 7 days of culture, hEOs
(passages 15-20) were labelled with Molday-ION Rhodamine B (MIRB,
50 μg/ml) for final tracking. The uterine horns from immunocompetent
C57BL/6 female mice (N=24) were damaged with 70% ethanol
(A20240214104113). Finally, hEOs were mixed with PM+EndoECM
and co-injected into the injured tissue (~106 cells/horn). After 14 days of
treatment, uterine horns were evaluated microscopically by histological
analyses (Prussian Blue) and endometrial thickness was measured.
Results: Previous injection, hEOs were successfully labelled with MIRB
(~85% efficacy), confirmed by fluorescence microscopy. After 14 days
of the co-injection (hEOs+PM+EndoECM), no significant differences
were found in the weight evolution and hematocrit parameters between
groups, demonstrating the biocompatibility (no adverse effects) of
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 49A
Thursday Orals
the treatment. Histology showed a statistically significant decrease
in the endometrial thickness of the damaged mice (p = 0.015) and
PM+EndoECM-treated mice (p = 0.041) compared with sham group.
Interestingly, hEOs+PM+EndoECM-treated mice showed no significant
differences with the sham group (p = 0.19), corroborating a recovery of
the endometrial thickness.
Conclusion: Our study demonstrates the biocompatibility and the
effectiveness of a new bioengineering treatment by combining labelled
hEOs with PM+EndoECM for endometrial repair in an immunocompetent
murine model. Although further analyses are needed for depicting the
biological mechanism of hEOs, this approach holds great potential for
the treatment landscape of endometrial pathology.
O-004
Uncovering Immune Responses at the Maternal-Fetal Interface
Triggered by IL-9, a T-cell Cytokine, during Preterm Labor. Dustyn
B. Levenson†,1,2 Valeria Garcia-Flores,1 Roger Pique-Regi,2 Yi Xu,1 Nardhy
Gomez-Lopez∗.1 1Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, United
States; 2Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, United States.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB), the leading cause of neonatal
morbidity and mortality, affects over 15 million infants annually. Preterm
labor (PTL) precedes most PTB cases, with 75% linked to non-infectious,
unexplained causes. We identified a large population of IL-9-expressing T
cells at the maternal-fetal interface (MFI) in women with non-infectious
PTB, yet IL-9’s role in this context remains unknown. Our objective is
to decipher the effects of IL-9 at the MFI in driving immune responses
leading to PTL/PTB.
Methods: We developed a murine PTL/PTB model by injecting IL-9 or
PBS into the MFI under ultrasound guidance (n=15/group). Mice were
monitored for cervical shortening as a marker of PTL. At PTL onset,
placenta, uterus, and decidua were collected for bulk RNA sequencing
(RNA-seq) to assess gene expression changes. RNA-seq data was
processed with Salmon, and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were
identified using DESeq2 (FC >1.25, FDR <0.1). To pinpoint IL-9’s effects
on specific cell types, tissues from a second group of mice (n=10-13/group)
were analyzed by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Data was
processed with Seurat, integrated with Harmony, and DEGs identified.
Gene Ontology enrichment was performed with ClusterProfiler and IL-9
receptor (IL-9R) expression was evaluated.
Results: IL-9 delivery at the MFI induces PTL/PTB. RNA-seq revealed
IL-9-induced gene dysregulation across the placenta, uterus, and
decidua. In the placenta, steroid hormone biosynthesis and complement/
coagulation pathways were most impacted, while in the uterus/decidua,
leukocyte infiltration and homing pathways were most affected. scRNAseq
identified 38 placental and 32 uterine/decidual clusters. The placenta
had the most DEGs, with B cells as the most dysregulated hematopoietic
cell type (180 DEGs), enriched in translation and ribosome biogenesis.
Stromal cells were the most affected non-hematopoietic cell type (766
DEGs), enriched in JAK-STAT regulation and lactation-related hormone
production. Fibroblasts were most dysregulated in the uterus (233 DEGs)
and stromal cells were most affected in the decidua (31 DEGs). Uterine
macrophages (26 DEGs) were enriched in immune defense pathways.
IL-9R was expressed by both hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic
cells, with B cells and stromal cells showing highest expression in the
placenta, and T cells and fibroblasts showing highest expression in the
uterus/decidua.
Conclusion: This study provides the first single-cell atlas of the murine
MFI during PTL induced by IL-9, a cytokine increased in women with noninfectious
PTB. Our findings reveal how IL-9 disrupts cellular pathways
at the MFI, highlighting specific cells and molecular mechanisms
contributing to non-infectious PTL and offering potential targets for
PTB prevention.
O-005
Plasma Cell Free (PCF) NAMPT Expression at 12-20 Weeks in
Women Destined for Early Onset Preeclampsia (EOP) with Delivery
<34 Weeks. Carl P Weiner∗,1 Howard S Cuckle,2 Susan E Carlson,3 Ira
Bernstein.4 1Creighton University Medical School Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ,
United States; 2Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; 3KUMC, Kansas City,
KS, United States; 4University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, United States.
Introduction: We have shown increased PCF NAMPT RNA expression
between 16-20 weeks is predictive of EOP with delivery<34 weeks
(Diagnostics 2022; 12:1327). Low dose aspirin (LDA) reduces the rate
of EOP, though early initiation of LDA (<14 weeks) increases its efficacy.
We hypothesized 1st trimester PCF NAMPT expression would be elevated
in women who subsequently develop EOP with delivery <34 weeks and
thus enable the early initiation of LDA for high risk women.
Methods: Plasma samples were obtained between 12-20 weeks from
494 subjects in 2 NIH sponsored trials (ADORE Trial, n=406; and
Prepregnancy Phenotype and Predisposition to Preeclampsia Trial, n=88).
There were 379 qualifying pregnancies after excluding subjects with
spontaneous preterm birth (sPTB) and/or late onset preeclampsia: 9 cases
and 370 controls. 70 (21%) of the subjects were sampled <14 weeks. PCF
RNA was extracted using a proprietary method (NALA DX Inc). PCF
NAMPT expression was quantified by RT-PCR. Linear regression analysis
included NAMPT expression plus gestation and trimester, maternal height
and weight, and systolic and diastolic blood pressures, all at sampling.
Results: NAMPT expression was significantly increased in women
destined for EOP with delivery <34 weeks. Only the addition of diastolic
pressure improved the predictive accuracy over NAMPT alone, yielding
an AUC=0.79 and an 83% detection rate. There were 2 cases of EOP
with delivery <34 weeks in women sampled <14 weeks (2.5%) and both
were correctly predicted. The 2 women known to be taking LDA were
false positives.
Conclusion: The results of this second validation study duplicate the first
while extending the testing window to below 14 weeks and providing
further support for an appropriately sized validation study replete
with all relevant clinical co-variables. This single blood draw has the
potential to change obstetric practice for early/extreme preterm birth if
validated for EOP and combined with other, already validated PCF RNA
markers predictive of spontaneous preterm birth </=32 weeks (BJOG
2021;128:1870; Diagnostics 2022;12:1327; Biomedicines 2023;11:1149)
O-006
Maternal Plasma miRNAs Predict Subsequent Adverse Pregnancy
Outcome as Early as 12 Weeks’ Gestation. Sung Hye Kim,1,2 Lucia
Riaposova,1,2 Maria Arianoglou†,1,2 David A MacIntyre,1,2 Lynne Sykes,1,2,3
Phillip R Bennett,1,2 Vasso Terzidou.1,2,4 1Imperial College London, London,
United Kingdom; 2March of Dimes Prematurity Research Centre, London,
United Kingdom; 3The Parasol Foundation Centre for Women’s Health
and Cancer Research, London, United Kingdom; 4Imperial College School
of Medicine, Chelsea & Westminster Hospital, London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB) and small-for-gestational-age fetuses
(SGA) are associated with increased neonatal morbidity and mortality.
Current screening practices are only used in high-risk patients and lack
reliable predictive power early in pregnancy to allow time for outcomemodifying
interventions. We previously identified 9 miRNAs predictive
of PTB and 4 predictive of SGAs in plasma collected at 12 weeks from
a high-risk cohort. Here we report validation of these biomarkers in
general population.
Methods: Maternal plasma samples (at 12-14+6 weeks gestation) were
collected from general population under the PROPER (Prediction of
preterm labour) study. 2415 samples with complete metadata and delivery
outcomes were used for this analysis, where 2258 delivered at term and
157 delivered preterm (<37 weeks). The centiles of all deliveries were
calculated using the GROW chart from the Perinatal Institute. Expression
of the PTB and SGA miRNA markers were assessed using RT-qPCR.
Results: For prediction of SGA, we found significant increases in miR-
374a and let-7d expression in SGA cases (<5th centile) compared to
controls (p<0.001), with ROC AUC of 0.72 and 0.71, respectively, and
combination of both miRNAs demonstrated ROC AUC of 0.76. For PTB
50A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
prediction, we found an increase in 3/9 miRNAs. Our best performing
miRNA, miR-150, was significantly higher in PTB compared to term
controls (p<0.001), with a ROC AUC of 0.63 for PTB <37weeks, and
0.67 for PTB <34weeks. Combining our PTB miRNAs and incorporating
clinical metadata with the use of machine learning further improved the
predictive ability for PTB. When examining the PTBs in more detail, miR-
150 showed excellent ability to discriminate spontaneous PTB without
PPROM with ROC AUC 0.84.
Conclusion: Our study validates our previously described diagnostic
miRNA markers which can be used as early as 12 weeks’ gestation in
all pregnant women to predict preterm birth or growth restriction. These
miRNA markers have the potential to be used as early screening tools
in all women to help identify those who will develop adverse pregnancy
outcomes and may benefit from intervention.
O-007
Amniotic Fluid Extracellular Vesicles Provide Proteomic Insights into
the Pathophysiology of Congenital Cytomegalovirus Infection. Ishara
Atukorala,1 Luc De Catte,2 Sally Beard,1 Ching-Seng Ang,3 Susan Walker,1
Natalie Hannan,1 Lisa Hui∗.1 1The University of Melbourne, Heidelberg,
Australia; 2University Hospital Luven, Luven, Belgium; 3The University
of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.
Introduction: Cytomegalovirus (cCMV) infection is an important cause
of fetal neurological injury and other organ damage. Amniotic fluid
contains extracellular vesicles (EVs) secreted by the fetus and placenta.
EVs carry stable biologically active molecules, including protein and
nucleic acids. Our aim was to compare the amniotic fluid EV proteome
between human fetuses with and without CMV infection.
Methods: Amniotic fluid samples were obtained from clinically
indicated amniocentesis from live ongoing pregnancies at 21-26 weeks
gestation. We compared amniotic fluid EVs from four cCMV-infected
pregnancies with fetal ultrasound abnormalities with four healthy noninfected
controls, matched for gestational age and fetal sex. We isolated
EVs using a combination of differential centrifugation, filtration, and
ultracentrifugation and characterised them using nanoparticle tracking
analysis, cryo-electron microscopy, and Western blotting. Two-tailed
unpaired Student’s T-test was used to determine statistical significance.
EV proteins were digested with sequence-grade Trypsin and the proteome
was analysed using label-free proteomics. Students’s T-test (FDR=0.05,
S0=0.1) on Perseus was used for quantitative proteomic data analysis.
Results: Nanoparticle tracking analysis confirmed that EV concentrations
were higher in CMV-infected amniotic fluid samples, suggesting
inflammation in the fetoplacental unit. We identified 2167 proteins
ubiquitously expressed in all 8 samples. Out of these, 188 proteins were
significantly dysregulated in the CMV-infected group. Seventy-six of
these proteins were expressed in the nervous system. Monarch Human
phenotype analysis showed that significantly dysregulated proteins
were implicated in abnormalities of the nervous system, head, face,
musculoskeletal system, blood homeostasis and cardiovascular system.
KEGG and Reactome pathway analyses showed the acute immune
response to the viral infection from the fetoplacental unit and the loss
of tissue homeostasis.
Conclusion: These pilot data demonstrate the feasibility of using amniotic
fluid EVs to understand the pathophysiology of CMV infection in live
human fetuses. The proteins involved in neurodevelopment may represent
future prognostic biomarkers for congenital CMV.
O-008
Reducing Health Inequities in Maternity Care: Impact of Integrated
Maternity Care on Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes Among Women
in a Socioeconomically Vulnerable Situation. Anne Hermans†, Loes
Bertens∗, Jasper Been∗, Arie Franx∗, Jacoba Van Der Kooy∗. Erasmus
Medical Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
Introduction: Although maternity care interventions have improved
health outcomes in general over the recent years, inequity in health
outcomes increased, as women in socially vulnerable situations remain
difficult to engage. These women, often facing socioeconomic barriers, are
less likely to benefit from standard healthcare interventions, exacerbating
disparities in perinatal outcomes. Therefore, integrated maternity care
(IMC) has been proposed, which emphasizes on integrated echelontranscending
multidisciplinary collaboration, and a patient-centred
approach. This study aims to determine whether introduction of IMC was
associated with reduced inequity in perinatal outcomes: preterm births
(PTB) and small-for-gestational-age infants (SGA).
Methods: Retrospective Dutch registry study including data of 1135897
women derived from the ‘Data-Infrastructure for PArents and childRen’-
dataset from Statistics Netherlands. Intervention was the implementation
of IMC (end of 2016). We defined IMC as the foundation of an integrated
maternity care organization with a coordinated, multidisciplinary approach
to perinatal care, involving multidisciplinary collaboration to ensure
continuity, and patient-centered care. Women were categorized into
groups: those in socially vulnerable versus non-vulnerable situations
based on socioeconomic factors. Additionally, they were divided by the
type of care received—either IMC or standard care. The degree of equity
was calculated by dividing the prevalence rates of PTB and SGA of the
vulnerable by non-vulnerable group per type of care. Through segmented
regression analysis monthly SGA- and PTB ratios before (2014-2016)
and after intervention (2018-2020) were assessed, and trend coefficients
were calculated. Sub-analysis included PTB <34 weeks- and PTB 34-37
weeks-ratios.
Results: The calculated ratio of PTB in women receiving IMC declined
from 0.96 (6.2%/6.5%) in 2014 to 0.71 (4.6%/6.5%) in 2020. Segmented
regression analysis demonstrated a statistically significant monthly decline
in the calculated ratio of PTB in women receiving IMC of 2.5% (p=0.030)
for 2018-2020, which was non-apparent in women receiving standard
care. Segmented regression sub-analysis demonstrated a significant
average monthly 2.9% (p=0.048) reduction in the calculated ratio of PTB
between 34-37 weeks in women receiving IMC for 2018-2020 versus a
mean monthly 3.4% (p=0.032) increase in ratio of PTB between 34-37
weeks in the same period. No statistically significant differences were
observed for SGA ratios.
Conclusion: Implementation of IMC was associated with a significant
reduction in health inequities, with impact on reducing PTB between
34-37 weeks of gestation. These encouraging findings support the
implementation of IMC to reduce disparities in maternity care.
O-009
Increased Risk of Perinatal Mental Disorders Among the Transgender
Population: A Real-World Investigation Using US Electronic Health
Records. Tina Yi Jin Hsieh†,1 Maria Bazan,2 Anna Modest,3 James Cheng-
Chung Wei,4 Chi-Fong Wang∗.3 1Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA,
United States; 2Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, United
States; 3Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, United States;
4Chung Shan Medical School, Taichung, Taiwan.
Introduction: Pregnancy is possible for transgender people. Previous
studies examining obstetrical outcomes found no significant differences
between trans and cisgender individuals. However, perinatal and
postpartum mental health among trans people remain understudied.
Methods: We identified 401 trans, and 2,323,091 cisgender people
aged 15-65 with pregnancy and delivery billing codes in their electronic
health records from January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2023, using the
TrinetX database. The starting date for pregnancy was set at 39 weeks
before a full-term delivery and 35 weeks before a preterm delivery. The
trans cohort was defined as female assigned at birth with a billing code
for transgenderism before pregnancy start and all others were assigned
to the cisgender cohort. Follow-up time was one year after the start of
pregnancy. Trans and cisgender pregnancies were matched 1:1 using
propensity score matching (PSM). The PSM model included maternal
age, demographics, health utilization, comorbidities, smoking, alcohol,
cannabis, and HIV infection. Cox proportional hazard regressions were
used to calculate the hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI)
for the association between trans pregnancy and perinatal mental health.
Results: After PSM-matching, the trans cohort showed a higher risks
of new-onset postpartum depression (HR 2.5, 95% CI 1.6-4.0), bipolar
disorders (HR 3.3, 95% CI 1.3-8.3), substance use disorders (HR 2.4, 95%
CI 1.3-4.6), schizophrenia (HR 4.4, 95% CI 1.5-13.2), unipolar affective
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 51A
Thursday Orals
disorders (HR 2.6, 95% CI 1.5-4.6), adjustment disorders (HR 6.2, 95%
CI 2.4-16.3), obsessive-compulsive disorders (HR 4.4, 95% CI 1.3-15.7),
and anxiety (HR 2.4, 95% CI 1.3-4.3). No significant differences were
found in personality disorders (HR 2.5, 95% CI 0.8-8.0), other puerperal
mental and behavioral disorders (HR 1.2, 95% CI 0.8-2.0).
Conclusion: Our findings show an increased risk of perinatal and
postpartum mental health disorders among trans people compared to
cisgender people. These results highlight the need for targeted mental
health support for trans people during and after pregnancy.
O-010
Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Maternal Anemia and Risk of
Postpartum Hemorrhage Requiring Blood Transfusion. Jamie
A. Green†, Tiffany Mateo†, Frank I. Jackson†, Insaf Kouba, Luis A.
Bracero, Kristen Demertzis, Matthew J. Blitz. Northwell Health South
Shore University Hospital, Bay Shore, NY, United States.
Introduction: Racial and ethnic disparities in maternal anemia are
well described. We aimed to evaluate the association between severity
of anemia prior to delivery and risk of postpartum hemorrhage
requiring blood transfusion (PPH+PRBC) while adjusting for patient
sociodemographic characteristics, including race and ethnicity.
Methods: This was a retrospective cohort study of all deliveries that
occurred at 7 hospitals within a large health care system in New York
from 2019-2022. The primary exposure was maternal anemia based on
hemoglobin level on admission for delivery. When present, severity of
anemia was classified according to the World Health Organization (WHO)
criteria as mild, moderate, or severe (hemoglobin 9.0-10.9, 7.0-8.9,
and <7.0 g/dL, respectively). The primary outcome was PPH+PRBC.
Multivariable logistic regression was used to evaluate the association
between the severity of anemia and PPH+PRBC, adjusting for potential
confounders.
Results: A total of 107,442 deliveries were included for analysis and
24.7% (n=26,557) were affected by anemia: 62.9% (n=16,692) mild,
36.7% (n=9,742) moderate, and 0.5% (n=123) severe. Moderate and severe
anemia were more common in non-Hispanic Black (NHB) compared to
non-Hispanic White (NHW) patients (13.7% vs. 8.5%; P <0.001). The
overall rate of PPH+PRBC was 3.0% (n=3,178), which occurred in 2.1%
of NHW and 4.6% of NHB patients (p <0.001). As expected, severity of
anemia was associated with likelihood of PPH+PRBC. After adjustment
for severity of anemia and other sociodemographic and clinical factors,
nearly all race and ethnicity groups were at increased risk for PPH+PRBC
compared to NHW patients.
Conclusion: Disparities in maternal anemia exist across race and ethnicity
groups but do not fully explain differences in PPH+PRBC. Barriers to
antenatal treatment of anemia must be identified and factors contributing
to PPH+PRBC disparities, including the role of structural racism, must
be further explored.
O-011
The Influence of Childhood Abuse, Neglect, and Household Dysfunction
on Postpartum Opioid Use. Nidhee Reddy, Elizabeth Sherwin, Janet
Hurtado, Sam Simpson, Jordan Burgess, Noor Joudi†, Metabel Markwei†,
Miriam Schultz, Pervez Sultan, Brendan Carvalho, Ylayaly Katherine
Bianco, Danielle Panelli. Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, United States.
Introduction: Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) are traumatic
events that can affect physical and mental health in adulthood, yet their
effect on postpartum pain is understudied. We evaluated whether specific
ACE exposures were associated with postpartum opiate use following
cesarean birth.
Methods: The prospective study recruited postpartum people with
singleton gestations following cesarean at an academic practice
between 2023 and 2024. Participants were English or Spanish-speaking
between the ages of 18-55. ACEs were collected using a validated
questionnaire (ACE-Q) 24-48 hours post-cesarean. ACEs were grouped
into three categories based on type of trauma exposure: abuse, neglect,
and household dysfunction. Opioid use was measured as total opioid
consumption throughout postpartum hospitalization, in oral milligram
morphine equivalents (MMEs), divided by length of stay to give average
MMEs per day. We defined moderate-to-high opioid use as MME
consumption >50th percentile. Multivariable logistic regression models
were used, adjusting for confounders.
Results: Among 133 participants, 23.3% had experienced abuse, 35.3%
household dysfunction, and 15.0% neglect, with 58.6% of the cohort
reporting no ACEs. Compared to people without ACEs, median daily
MMEs were significantly higher for people with ACEs in each category
(median 4 [Q1, Q3 0,11] no ACEs versus 6 [4, 17] for abuse [p=0.01],
5 [4,18] for neglect [p=0.049], and 7 [4,19] for household dysfunction
[p=0.01]. Compared to people without ACEs, people with an abuse ACE
had increased moderate-to-high opiate use (adjusted odds ratio [aOR]
2.56; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.03, 6.60). Similarly, those with
a household dysfunction ACE had increased odds of moderate-to-high
opioid use (aOR 2.33; 95% CI 1.07, 5.18). Having a neglect ACE was
not associated with moderate-to-high opiate use.
Conclusion: Postpartum people with abuse and household dysfunction
ACEs used more opioids after cesarean birth compared to those without
ACEs. These results demonstrate the importance of incorporating traumainformed
care into pain management practices in pregnant people with
a history of ACEs.
O-012
Gestational Diabetes Mellitus: Predictors of Pharmacotherapy
Initiation. Candace Levian†, Mariam Naqvi, Alexandra Navarrete, Mona
Garcia, Tania F Esakoff∗. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles,
CA, United States.
Introduction: Pharmacotherapy is initiated in the management of
gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) if target glycemic goals are unmet
with nutritional therapy alone. It can be difficult to foresee which patients
may ultimately require medical therapy. We aimed to investigate patient
factors that may predict medication requirement in patients with GDM.
Methods: Retrospective cohort study of patients with GDM who delivered
at a single institution from 2020-2023, stratified by need for medical
therapy. Data were obtained through chart abstraction. Comparisons were
performed using χ2 and t-test, with multivariable logistic regression to
adjust for confounders.
Results: We identified 667 patients with GDM during the study period,
of whom 239 (36%) ultimately required medication. Patients requiring
medical therapy were more likely to have pre-pregnancy obesity (40% vs
17%, P < 0.01), GDM in a prior pregnancy (20% vs 12%, P < 0.01), and
a family history of diabetes mellitus (57% vs 45%, P < 0.01). This group
was also diagnosed with GDM at an earlier gestational age (25.5 vs 27.2
weeks, P < 0.01). Patients requiring medication were more likely to have
a fasting glucose >/= 95 mg/dL (46% vs 18%, P < 0.01) on 3-hour oral
glucose tolerance testing (OGTT). After adjustment for obesity and other
potential confounders, these associations remained significant.
Conclusion: Predictors of medical therapy in patients with GDM include
pre-pregnancy obesity, GDM in a prior pregnancy, family history of
diabetes, and elevated fasting glucose on OGTT. These findings may
inform patient counseling and initial lifestyle modifications at time of
GDM diagnosis.
O-013
Single-Nucleus Sequencing of Archival DIE Lesions Uncovers Local
Dienogest Effects and Identifies Novel Treatment Strategies for
Refractory Patients. Brett D. McKinnon∗,1 Lea Duempelmann,2 Jitka
Skrabalova,3 Michael D Mueller,3 Konstantinos Nirgianakis.3 1Institute for
Molecular Bioscience, Brisbane, Australia; 2University of Bern, Brisbane,
Switzerland; 3University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
Introduction: Progestins are the recommended first line and adjuvant
treatment for endometriosis, however there is significant variation in
patient response with no way to identifying which patient will benefit.
In addition to systemic effects progestin may also have local effects
that vary based on lesion characteristics. In this study we develop novel
single nuclei sequencing techniques that provide access to archival tissue,
generate gene signatures of both treatment and drug response, use these
to identify potential novel treatments and validate them with high content
imaging of patient derived organoids.
52A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Methods: Medical records were searched for Deeply infiltrating
endometriosis (DIE) who had taken DNG at least 3 months prior to
surgery. Patients were grouped into either untreated controls, or treated
patients split by treatment response. Endometriosis lesions in archival
tissue was histopathologically confirmed and intact nuclei extracted
to generate single nuclei sequencing data. Gene expression and cell
composition was determined and compared amongst untreated, responders
and on-responders. Gene expression signatures was subsequently used
to interrogate the Connective Map database and potential perturbagens
for refractory patients identified. Finally, these perturbagens were
assessed with high content imaging drug screening assays on endometrial
organoids.
Results: Using 33 DIE lesions from 10 untreated, 13 responders and
10 non-responders we generated sequences from 40,015 nuclei. DIE
lesions were revealed to have a strong inflammatory phenotype with high
lymphocyte content (18.5%). DNG significantly reduced lymphocytes
through suppression of epithelial CXCL1, 2 and 4, stromal CXCL12 and
14 and lymphocyte CXCR4. Patients’ refractory to DNG had increased
fibrosis mediated by stromal TGFB and epithelial SDC4. Gene expression
signatures of refractory patients strongly support the use of glucocorticoid
agonists in both stromal and lymphocyte cells. NFKB and HSP90
inhibitors were implicated to target epithelial cells with this validated in
high content imaging organoid drug screening assay
Conclusion: We conducted the first large-scale characterization of DIE
lesions, confirming their cellular composition and an impact of DNG.
We identified gene signature of refractory patients useful for prognosis
and find significant support for the use of compounds with glucocorticoid
agonist (GCA) activity. A finding of particular importance given the
GCA activity of some progestin compounds in approved endometriosis
treatment. Together this study provides direct evidence for targeting
treatments to patients taking the first step in personalising treatment.
O-014
Development of an In Vitro Model of the Cervicovaginal Interface
for Mechanistic Investigation of Infection. Filipa Ribeiro†, Katherine
M. Nelson, Jason P. Gleghorn∗. University of Delaware, Newark, DE,
United States.
Introduction: The cervicovaginal interface of the female reproductive
tract is a complex tissue microenvironment that helps maintain
homeostasis and provides defense against pathogens. The endocervical,
ectocervical, and vaginal epithelium lines this interface, generating
an epithelial tissue that goes from a simple columnar cell monolayer
to a stratified squamous epithelium. Sexually transmitted infections,
including gonorrhea and HPV, show distinct infection patterns at the
cervix-vagina transition zone. No in vitro models exist of this biologically
important transition zone to enable the investigation of host-pathogen
interactions for mechanistic understanding. To overcome this, we have
developed a straightforward method and cell culture strategy to generate
a cervicovaginal interface in vitro.
Methods: A cell culture insert was fabricated using a track-etched
membrane (pore sizes: 3, 1, and 0.2 μm) sandwiched between silicone with
channels for cell access. The insert rested on a 3D-printed well support,
allowing basal media access and culture at the air-liquid interface (ALI).
0.1% gelatin was coated on the membrane to promote cell adhesion.
A2EN endocervical cells and VK2 vaginal cells were serially seeded
on the membrane in a spatially-defined pattern. Additional tests were
performed with primary cells. Following 24 hours of culture, the insert
was flipped, and BJ fibroblast feeder cells were seeded and cultured on the
opposite side of the membrane. Once the tri-cell culture was established,
the insert was flipped to position epithelial cells at ALI. Culture medium
was replaced daily. Following 7 days of culture, the insert was fixed and
stained for analysis. These methods were also adapted and validated using
a standard cell culture transwell insert.
Results: The methods developed herein produced a continuous epithelial
tissue that transitions from a simple columnar to a stratified epithelium
using established cell lines and primary cells as confirmed with
immunofluorescent staining of cell-specific markers and barrier function
assays. This method was developed for a custom insert system to control
culture area geometry and the resulting interface and supported culture
over nine days. To ensure it could be adopted by other labs, fabrication
of the custom culture insert used commercially available materials and
standard bench-top equipment and the methods have been validated within
standard well plate cell culture inserts. Infection assays are underway.
Conclusion: We developed a simple method to model the cervicovaginal
epithelial interface of the female reproductive tract. Our in vitro model will
enable the study of infection and host-pathogen interactions within this
tissue region and allow for more physiologically relevant STI research.
O-015
TF-CAR-NK Cells as an Immunotherapy for Endometriosis. Ramanaiah
Mamillapalli,1 Graciela Krikun,1 Gawde Nimisha,1 Zhiwei Hu,2 Hugh S
Taylor∗.1 1Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United
States; 2Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is an inflammatory gynecological disease
characterized by the growth of endometrial tissue outside the uterus.
Current medical therapies are all hormonal, not consistently effective,
and have significant side effects; women with this disease often requiring
surgical intervention. Therefore, new non-hormonal medical treatments
that target the immune alterations associated with this disease offer
promise as more effective therapy. Tissue Factor (TF) is aberrantly
expressed in endometriosis. Similarly natural killer (NK) cells are deficient
in endometriosis. We evaluated the systemic administration of TF targeting
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) NK cells (i.e., TF-CAR-NK cells) for
the treatment of endometriosis. The use NK cells targeting TF is a novel
cellular immunotherapy for the treatment of endometriosis.
Methods: Endometriosis was induced in SCID mice by implanting human
endometriotic tissue. Four pieces of human endometriosis tissue (5 mm
each) were sutured on to either side of the parietal peritoneum using 5-0
polyglactin suture, approximately 1 centimeter apart. After 5 weeks,
mice were divided into two groups (n=10 each). One group received
TF-CAR-NK cells and the other received Control-NK cells (2x106
cells/100 μl) through tail vein infusion, weekly for 5 weeks. Mice were
sacrificed and lesions were measured and stored for further cytokine and
immunohistochemical analysis.
Results: The transplanted human endometriotic tissues successfully
engrafted, developed new blood vessels, and increased in size without
treatment. From each group 39 lesions were collected. In the TF-CAR-NK
cell treated group, the lesion volume is significantly decreased compared
to Control-NK cells treated group (1.5 mm3 + 0.8 vs 4.4 mm3 + 3.3,
p=0.002). Differential expression of various leukocyte markers including
CD45, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD19, CD68 were analyzed, demonstrating
an enhanced NK, macrophage and T cell mediated immune response.
The inflammatory cytokine profile comparing the expression levels in
lesions between TF-CAR-NK cell and Control-NK cell treated animals
demonstrated a shift away from the inflammatory milieu typically
associated with endometriosis and a distinct cytotoxic effect.
Conclusion: We demonstrate the first use of adoptive CAR-NK cell
immunotherapy for the treatment of endometriosis. TF-targeting CAR-NK
cell immunotherapy successfully treated human endometriosis in murine
avatars by altering immune response. This non-hormonal treatment is a
promising novel immunotherapy for endometriosis.
O-016
FOXA2 Loss Results an Increase of Endometriosis Incidence as Well
as Epithelial PGR Loss, and LIF Reveals a Therapeutic Effect for
Endometriosis. Md Saidur Rahman, Tae Hoon Kim, Breton F. Barrier,
Thomas E. Spencer, Andrew M. Kelleher, Jae-Wook Jeong∗. University
of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is the growth of uterine-like tissue outside
the uterus, causing pain and infertility. Unfortunately, current diagnostic
and therapeutic strategies have considerable limitations, leading to delays
in diagnosis and adverse side effects of treatments. The transcription
factor forkhead box A2 (FOXA2) is expressed solely in the glandular
epithelium (GE) of the uterus and is a critical regulator of genes involved
in endometrial proliferation, differentiation, fertility, and steroid hormone
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 53A
Thursday Orals
response. Of note FOXA2 expression is decreased in the endometrial tissue
of women with endometriosis; however, the biological role of FOXA2 in
endometriosis has not been studied.
Methods: To elucidate the pathophysiological role of FOXA2 in the
context of endometriosis and its related infertility, endometriosis was
surgically induced by transplanting control or Pgrcre/+Foxa2f/fRosa26mTmG/+
(Foxa2d/dRosa26mTmG/+) endometrial tissue into the peritoneal cavity. The
expression of FOXA2 was examined in the eutopic endometrium and
ectopic lesions during endometriosis progression. The effect of FOXA2
loss on endometriosis was evaluated by assessing ectopic lesion incidence.
To evaluate the effect of LIF, a FOXA2-regulated cytokine, mice were
induced with endometriosis and treated with either a vehicle or LIF (0.5
mg/kg) for four weeks.
Results: The expression of FOXA2 was significantly reduced in the
eutopic endometrium of mice with endometriosis compared to sham
controls (n=5, P<0.05). Likewise, CXCL15, a target of FOXA2, was also
downregulated in the glandular epithelium of mice with endometriosis
(P<0.05). The number and weight of ectopic lesions were significantly
increased when endometriosis was induced by inoculating Foxa2d/
dRosa26mTmG/+ endometrial tissue compared to control. Furthermore,
PGR expression at the pre-implantation stage was significantly reduced
in endometrial epithelium from mice with Foxa2d/dRosa26mTmG/+ ectopic
lesions compared to mice with control ectopic lesions. Notably, LIF
treatment significantly reduced ectopic lesion formation compared to
the vehicle group.
Conclusion: This study demonstrates that FOXA2 loss in endometriosis
and its related infertility, is in part, due to the attenuation of PGR.
Compensating for FOXA2 pathways, particularly through LIF
supplementation, offers a promising therapeutic approach for
endometriosis.
This work was supported by NICHD R01HD101243and P01HD106485.
O-017
Development of a Microphysiological Model to Study Endometriosis
Lesions. Lauren Pruett†, Laura Bahlmann†, Ryan Ogi, Linda Griffith∗.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis and adenomyosis are debilitating
gynecologic disorders affecting ~10% of reproductive age women with
no curative treatment. Lesions establish complex microenvironments
comprising epithelia with surrounding stroma, vasculature, and immune
cells. Although animal models can provide some insights into disease
processes, there is growing interest in capturing human responses to
drugs, particularly those targeted toward inflammation. To that goal, we
have developed a microfluidic lesion model comprising patient-derived
epithelial organoids, stroma and immune cells within a perfusable
microvascular bed, all supported by a fully synthetic hydrogel.
Methods: Synthetic hydrogels comprise 8-arm polyethylene glycol (PEG)
- vinyl sulfone, partially modified with integrin- and matrix- binding
peptides, and crosslinked with a cell-degradable peptide. The following
cells were combined in a gel precursor solution: primary endometrial
epithelial organoids (EEOs) and stromal cells (ESCs); GFP-labeled
HUVECs or uterine endothelial cells (HUTMVECs); lung fibroblasts
(NHLFs); and in some experiments, macrophages from CD14+ human
monocytes. The solution was injected into a custom microfluidic device
that had a central gel channel with flanking media channels, for use in
static culture or under continuous flow. After 30 min gelation, media was
added to the side channels. Media was changed daily and stored frozen
for analysis. Network formation and organoid growth were monitored
via daily imaging.
Results: We show development of self-assembled perfusable
microvascular networks over 6 days in the presence of flow using HUVECNHLF
coculture, the canonical cell combination used in the vascularized
MPS literature. Importantly, we also show formation of perfusable
microvasculature with adenomyosis-relevant source cells, using
HUTMVEC-ESC coculture. With both endothelial sources, we incorporate
EEOs and ESCs in the initial endothelial-fibroblast gel encapsulation
mixture to form lesion-like structures in the microvascular bed. We then
incorporated macrophages, a hallmark of lesions and target of novel
drug compounds. We established conditions to achieve microvascular
network formation with macrophages at a ratio comparable to that found in
endometriosis lesions in vivo and demonstrated macrophage functionality
as evidenced by IL-6 secretion (ELISA). Additionally, macrophages
did not alter ESC responsiveness to stimulation by progesterone, as
evidenced by prolactin secretion (ELISA). Altogether, we demonstrate
our microfluidic device and synthetic hydrogel supports the co-culture
of epithelial, stromal, immune and endothelial cells to model the lesion
microenvironment and response to hormones.
Conclusion: The totally synthetic yet complex nature of this culture
model offers potential to improve reproducibility in assessing the biology
of lesions and testing interventions.
O-018
Spatial Transcriptomics Identifies Immune Cell Dysregulation in
Adenomyosis, Endometriosis, and Fibroids. Alison Maclean†,1,2
Emily Johnson†,3 Eva Caamano-Gutierrez∗,3 Dharani K Hapangama∗.1,1
1Institute of Life Course and Medical Sciences, University of Liverpool,
Liverpool, United Kingdom; 2Liverpool Women’s Hospital, Liverpool,
United Kingdom; 3University of Liverpool, MerseyBio, Liverpool, United
Kingdom.
Introduction: Adenomyosis, endometriosis, and fibroids (AEF) affect
a third of women worldwide, causing heavy periods, chronic pain and
subfertility, suggesting shared endometrial abnormalities, with immune
dysregulation contributing to their pathogenesis. Better understanding of
the underlying pathogenesis is crucial for developing improved treatments.
The objective of this study was to investigate the transcriptomic profile
of immune cells in adenomyosis (eutopic and ectopic endometrium),
endometriosis, and fibroids compared to control endometrium.
Methods: Whole transcriptome spatial profiling was performed
on endometrial biopsies from women with adenomyosis (n=10),
endometriosis (n=15), fibroids (n=14), and no gynaecological conditions
(n=3). Women with adenomyosis provided full-thickness endometrial
biopsies and matched myometrial biopsies containing adenomyosis
lesions. All samples were collected during the secretory phase of the
menstrual cycle. Analyses included differential gene expression, gene-set
enrichment, ligand-receptor signalling, immune cell deconvolution, and in
silico drug screening. Immunostaining validated immune cell populations.
Results: Transcriptomic analysis revealed positively enriched pathways
related to T cell activation and adaptive immune response in endometrium
from adenomyosis, endometriosis, and fibroids compared to control
endometrium. An increased proportion of progenitor immune cells in all
three disease groups was confirmed through validatory immunostaining.
Further investigation of adenomyosis showed downregulation of genes
involved in cellular proliferation and apoptosis (FOS, JUNB, DUSP1; adj
p = 0.002) in eutopic endometrium compared to adenomyosis lesions, with
negative enrichment for DNA replication, transcription, and oestrogendependent
gene expression. Increased proportions of dendritic cells, T
cells, and B cells were confirmed in adenomyosis lesions (n = 10, p <
0.05). Ligand-receptor signalling analysis revealed prominent immuneepithelial
cell crosstalk in adenomyosis lesions. In silico drug screening
identified compounds that may selectively target adenomyosis lesions
while sparing normal endometrium.
Conclusion: This study reveals shared immune dysregulation among
adenomyosis, endometriosis, and fibroids and a distinct immune
microenvironment in adenomyosis lesions with altered cellular turnover,
impaired oestrogen responsiveness, and enhanced immune cell infiltration.
Potential targets for re-purposed treatments for adenomyosis are proposed
for future investigation.
54A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
O-019
A Novel Pre-Clinical Model of Excessive Endometrial Inflammation
Causing Heavy Menstrual Bleeding. Bethan Rowley†,1 Rocío Martínez
Aguilar†,1 Rebecca Gentek∗,1 Kristina Gemzell Danielsson∗,2 Adrian
Freeman∗,3 Jacqueline Maybin∗.1 1University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh,
United Kingdom; 2Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden; 3AstraZeneca,
Cambridge, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) is common and
debilitating. Current treatments are non-specific and have side effects. In
50% of cases there are no structural causes and HMB is of endometrial
origin (HMB-E). Excessive endometrial inflammation at menstruation
has been observed in those with HMB-E. We hypothesised that induction
of excessive menstrual endometrial inflammation in our mouse model
of simulated menses will replicate this HMB phenotype and provide a
pre-clinical model for therapeutic testing.
Methods: Menstruation was simulated in wild-type (C57BL/6JOlaHsd)
mice via ovariectomy, sequential oestradiol and progesterone
administration, and artificial decidualisation. Menstruation was visible 8h
following progesterone withdrawal (t8) and endometrial repair after 24h
(t24). To increase menstrual endometrial inflammation, lipopolysaccharide
(LPS; 4mg/kg) was administered locally via a transcervical injection at
the time of progesterone withdrawal and compared to vehicle controls.
Uterine tissue (n=10/group) was collected at t8 and t24. Menstrual blood
loss (MBL) was assessed using a modified alkaline haematin method
and endometrial breakdown and repair was histologically graded.
Inflammatory mediators in the uterine tissue were quantified using RTqPCR.
The relative abundance of immune cell populations in the uterus
and matched peripheral blood were quantified using flow cytometry at
t8 (n=6/group).
Results: MBL was significantly increased following uterine LPS
administration (3.08μl ± 1.21) when compared to controls (1.57μl ±
0.54) at t8 (p=0.002). At t24 76.7% of controls had reached early or full
repair compared to just 41.7% in those administered LPS (p=0.073). LPS
administration also resulted in significant upregulation of inflammatory
and repair mediators at t8 (Tnfa, Adm; p<0.05) (Il-6, Il-10; p<0.01)
(Cxcl1, Nos2; p<0.001) (Ccl2; p<0.0001) and t24 (Il-10, Nos2; p<0.01).
Additionally, Vegf expression was significantly downregulated at t24
(p<0.01), consistent with previous findings in menstrual endometrium
from women with HMB. Uterine neutrophil abundance was significantly
increased following LPS administration (72.1% ± 10.6) compared to
controls (56.7% ± 6.4) at t8 (p=0.01). The proportion of circulating myeloid
cells was also significantly increased following LPS administration (66.7%
± 8.5) compared to controls (53.1% ± 10.7) at t8 (p=0.027).
Conclusion: Local LPS administration caused excessive endometrial
inflammation during simulated menstruation in mice, resulting in
increased MBL. This pre-clinical model will facilitate the future testing
of novel therapeutic compounds for HMB.
O-020
Inhibiting Fatty Acid Synthesis as a Potential Targeted Therapy to
Treat Endometriosis in Patients with an ARID1A Mutation. Daniëlle
Peterse†, Samuel Garrard, Dayana Alay Gonzalez, Caroline Stone, Michael
Rogers. Boston Childrens Hospital / Harvard Medical School, Boston,
MA, United States.
Introduction: Cancer-driver mutations have been described to be
commonly present in both the eutopic and ectopic endometrial epithelium
of endometriosis patients. These mutated epithelial cells make an ideal
specific target to treat endometriosis, since these mutations result in
dysregulated signaling in the epithelial cells. Molecules that synergize
with disrupted signaling could form the basis of new drugs by specifically
inhibiting the growth of the mutated cells, while leaving the normal cells
unaffected. Here, we employed a CRISPR-based functional genomics
approach on endometriotic epithelial cells harboring the cancer-driver
mutations of interest to identify how to target these cells.
Methods: We transduced 12Z cells, an immortalized endometriotic
epithelial cell line, to overexpress activated KRAS, PIK3CA or PPP2R1A
or to knock out ARID1A. Control cells were transduced with GFP. We
then used the Brunello CRISPR library, containing 4 sgRNAs for each
gene in the human genome, to perform a whole-genome synthetic lethality
test. With this, we identified genes whose knock-out resulted in cell death
or arrest in the mutated cells, but not in the normal cells. Following cell
culture, to enable amplification of benign sgRNAs, and relative depletion
of lethal sgRNAs, we used Illumina sequencing of PCR-products to
evaluate the representation of each of the 80,000 sgRNAs in the resulting
cell population. Next, a select group of promising target genes was chosen
for validation using commercially available small-molecule inhibitors.
The transduced 12Z cells were treated with these inhibitors, and cell
proliferation was monitored over time.
Results: Compared to wild-type GFP-expressing cells, those with
mutant KRAS, PIK3CA, PPP2R1A, or lacking ARID1A expression had
many sgRNAs with significantly reduced representation, suggesting
the potential to target specific pathways in endometriosis lesions.
Analysis of synthetically lethal sgRNAs highlighted enriched Acetyl-
CoA metabolism pathways, including fatty acid metabolism, tyrosine
kinase receptor signaling, and histone modification through the HUSH
Complex, indicating their involvement in endometriosis development and
their potential as drug targets. Further validation showed that ARID1Adeficient
12Z cells were more sensitive to lipid deprivation and inhibition
of Acetyl-CoA Carboxylase compared to wild-type 12Z cells and would
undergo apoptosis when grown in lipid-deprived media, while wild-type
cells continued to proliferate.
Conclusion: Endometriotic epithelial cells lacking ARID1A expression
had a disrupted fatty acid metabolism and relied on fatty acids in their
growth media for proliferation, making the fatty acid synthesis pathway
a promising target for developing new drugs for patients with ARID1A
mutations in their endometriotic lesions.
O-021
M1 Macrophages are a Source of IL-1α: A Driver of Progesterone
Metabolism and Myometrial Contraction. Lubna Nadeem, Benjamin
Matthews†, Adam Boros-Rausch†, Eduardo Aguiar, Oksana Shynlova∗,
Stephen Lye∗. Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Toronto, ON,
Canada.
Introduction: Term labor is a physiologic inflammatory event, and its
premature activation leads to Preterm birth (PTB). The onset of labor
involves monocyte infiltration in uterine muscle (myometrium) and
differentiation into macrophages (Macs). We have shown that M1-
polarized Macs promote progesterone (P4) metabolism in myocytes
(MYO) by inducing the expression of enzyme 20α-hydroxysteroid
Dehydrogenase (20α-HSD). We hypothesize that M1-Macs mediate this
effect through secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 alpha
(IL-1α) and that inhibition of IL-1α signaling by blocking its receptor, or
inhibiting the effect of 20α-HSD by using non-metabolizable progesterone
receptor agonist (R5020) can prevent myocyte contraction.
Methods: Human monocytes (primary or THP-1 cell line) were
differentiated into Macs (M0), polarized into M1 or M2-Macs and IL-1α
expression was examined using real-time PCR and immunofluorescence.
Primary Macs and MYO were co-cultured (1:10 ratio) for 24 hours and
20α-HSD protein levels were quantified via Western blotting. To examine
the role of Mac-secreted IL-1α, MYO were pre-treated with vehicle, IL-1
receptor antagonist (IL1RN, 20 ng/ml), or IL-1α neutralizing antibody
(2-4 μg/ml) prior to co-culture. To evaluate myocyte contractility in the
presence of Macs, collagen gel contraction assays were conducted with/
out IL1RN or R5020 (10 nM).
Results: Real-time PCR and immunofluorescence analyses revealed
significantly elevated levels of IL-1α mRNA (P≤0.01) and protein
(P≤0.001) in M1-Macs compared to M0 or M2-Macs. Treatment of
MYOs with IL-1α (10 ng/ml) resulted in increased expression of 20α-HSD
(P≤0.001), while inhibition of IL-1α signalling, either through the
application of IL1RN or IL-1α neutralizing antibody, decreased 20α-HSD
levels. Co-culture of MYO with M1-Macs induced 20α-HSD (P≤0.01)
and enhanced in-vitro collagen gel contraction (P≤0.001). Treatment of
co-cultures with non-metabolizable progestin R5020, or IL1RN effectively
blocked (P≤0.01) M1-Macs induced myocyte contractility.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 55A
Thursday Orals
Conclusion: We concluded that at late gestation IL-1α, derived from M1-
Macs, induces 20α-HSD levels, P4 withdrawal and enhanced contractility
of uterine myocytes. Our findings highlight the significant impact of tissue
resident Macs on P4 metabolism and uterine contractility during labor.
O-022
Molecular Detection of Group B Streptococcus Carriage in Pregnant
Women. Francesca Gaccioli, Eleonor Richards†, Katie Stephens†, D
Stephen Charnock-Jones, Gordon CS Smith∗. University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Vertical transmission of Group B Streptococcus (GBS)
during vaginal delivery leads to GBS early-onset disease (EOD), the most
common cause of life-threatening sepsis and meningitis in newborns.
Identifying colonized women enables intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis
(IAP) and reduces the risk of EOD by 80%. We have recently developed
a molecular test for GBS, based on the detection of the GBS genes 16S
(with at least 7 copies/genome) and sip (1 copy/genome) (Gaccioli, Nat
Micro 2023). However, the effectiveness of these two assays in assessing
GBS colonization and in comparison to the gold-standard Enriched Culture
Medium (ECM) test has yet to be evaluated.
Methods: We recruited 250 pregnant women (Maternal GBS Identification
[MAGIC] study), attending the Rosie Hospital Cambridge for a clinically
indicated high vaginal swab (HVS). We analyzed the HVSs (n=249) using
the ECM test specific for GBS. After total DNA extraction, we ran our
nested PCR/qPCR assays targeting the GBS 16S and sip genes, and the
human RnaseP gene (as a control for the presence of input DNA). We
compared GBS detection with ECM culture, 16S and sip and calculated
interrater agreement with kappa statistic.
Results: The ECM test identified 21 GBS positive samples (8.5% GBS
carriage in our cohort, n=1 missing value). Our nested PCR/qPCR assays
detected a total of 55 GBS carriers (22.2%, n=1 missing value) and correct
identification of GBS was confirmed by Sanger sequencing of the qPCR
amplicons. All the GBS positives identified by culture were positive
by one or both of the PCR/qPCR tests, and detection by either method
had a moderate agreement (k=0.46, 95% CI=0.31-0.60). Both 16S and
sip signals were detected in 44 samples, while 9 samples had only 16S
signal and 2 had only sip signal (almost perfect agreement between the 2
markers; k=0.86, 95% CI=0.78-0.94). 16S qPCR signal was 2-4 Ct lower
compared to the sip signal.
Conclusion: We developed two nested PCR/qPCR assays for the 16S and
sip GBS genes, which improved the identification of GBS carriers by 2.5
fold compared to the gold-standard ECM test. Measuring the 16S gene
increased the assay sensitivity, resulting in a greater number of identified
carriers and stronger signal strength. Nevertheless, multiplexing the two
assays further enhances carrier identification. Additionally, molecular
testing can be performed more rapidly and, hence, closer to the time of
delivery compared to culture-based methods. Given that GBS colonization
is transient, this approach enables more targeted IAP and improved
maternal and neonatal care.
O-023
Administration of Proteins Secreted by the Placenta Markedly
Improves Lung and Hepatic Molecular Outcomes in Premature
Guinea Pigs. Avery C Kramer†,1 Kelsey J Faer,1 Rebecca M Dyson,2
Alice Freeman,2 Theresa L Powell,1 Max Berry,2 Thomas Jansson.1
1University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO, United
States; 2University of Otago, Wellington, New Zealand.
Introduction: Extremely premature infants (born <28 week’s gestation)
are at increased risk of early morbidity and mortality, especially respiratory
complications, as well as long-term sequelae such as hepatic steatosis. We
have identified 142 proteins secreted by the preterm human placenta into
fetal circulation. Remarkably, a substantial number of these proteins could
be linked to processes such as pulmonary development and neurogenesis
suggesting that a subset of these proteins are critical for the in utero
development of organs often injured in extremely premature babies. We
hypothesized that selected proteins secreted by the placenta of extremely
and very preterm infants improve molecular outcomes in the liver and
lung of premature guinea pigs (GPs).
Methods: Preterm delivery was induced in pregnant GPs at gestational
day 62 (term 69-70) and all pups received postnatal thermal, respiratory,
and nutritional support in a GP Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. Pups were
randomized to receive either a cocktail of candidate proteins (PROT;
Activated Protein C, Fibroblast Growth Factor 1, Annexin A1, Ephrin B1,
and R-spondin 3, n=15) or saline (control, CON, n=18) via a subcutaneous
mini-osmotic pump for ~7days until reaching term equivalent age.
Overall survival, need for respiratory support (supplemental oxygen
or pressure support), and postnatal growth outcomes were determined.
Gene expression levels were determined by quantitative PCR and protein
expression using immunoblotting.
Results: Post-surgical survival was greater in PROT than CON pups
(100% vs. 72.2%; p<0.03). The need for respiratory support in PROT
pups (4 events) was reduced compared to CON pups (36 events, p<0.02).
PROT pup lungs had greater protein expression of homeodomain-only
protein and surfactant protein C compared to CON pups (p<0.05). CON
pup lungs had higher protein expression of α smooth muscle actin, NF-κB,
and integrin beta 4 than PROT pups (p<0.05). PROT pups had greater
liver weight as a proportion to total body weight compared to CON pups
(p<0.05). Male CON pup livers had greater mRNA and protein expression
of type I (p<0.002) and III (p<0.005) collagen compared to female CON
and PROT pups. PROT pups had reduced hepatic lipid accumulation
compared to CON pups (p<0.002). CON pups had greater mRNA and
protein expression of cytokeratin 19 and TNFα than PROT pups (p<0.005).
Conclusion: Prematurely delivered GPs resulted in markedly improved
survival rates, reduced need for respiratory support and improvement
of molecular markers of lung and liver function. We speculate that
supplementation with human placental proteins represent a novel
intervention to improve organ development in extremely premature
infants.
O-024
15dPGJ2 Prevents Maternal Stress Induced Preterm Birth in Mice.
O. Guzeloglu-Kayisli,1 A. Ozmen,1 B. C. Un†,1 B. Un,1 U. A Kayisli,1
I. Johnson,2 A. Thurman,2 M. Walters,2 D. Friend,2 C. J Lockwood∗.1
1University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States; 2Dare Bioscience
Inc., San Diego, CA, United States.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB) is the leading cause of perinatal
morbidity and mortality. About 50% of cases are idiopathic (iPTB),
linked to stress-related disorders. As a stress-induced protein, FKBP51
inhibits transcriptional activity of the progesterone (P4) receptor (PR) and
glucocorticoid receptor and reduces P4 and glucocorticoid effectiveness.
These effects impair the stress response contributing to stress-related
disorders. We found: 1) significantly higher FKBP51 levels and increased
FKBP51-PR interactions in decidual cells from iPTB cases; 2) protection
against maternal stress-induced PTB in Fkbp5-/- mice; and 3) reduced
decidual FKBP51 levels and decreased FKBP51-PR interactions by
15 deoxy-delta 12,14 prostaglandin J2 (15dPGJ2) treatment. Thus, we
hypothesize that 15dPGJ2 alone or combined with progestins prevent
maternal stress induced and iPTB.
Methods: Timed pregnant mice were either unrestrained (NST; n=12) or
subjected to restraint stress (ST; 1h x 3/day from embryonic days (E) 8
to 18). From E14 to E18, ST mice received injections of placebo (n=12)
or 20 μg 15dPGJ2 (n=13), or 0.2 mg P4 (n=13), or 0.2 mg synthetic
progestin R5020 (n=9), alone or combined with 15dPGJ2. Birth timing,
weight, and litter size were recorded. Uterine gene expression and serum
P4 levels were measured at E18 using qPCR and ELISA, respectively.
One Way ANOVA with P<0.05 were used for statistical comparisons.
Results: Stress shortened gestational length in ST mice (Mean± SEM:
18.7± 0.03 days) vs. NST mice (19.2± 0.09; P<0.05), resulting in PTB.
Either 15dPGJ2 (19.1± 0.07) or P4 (19.1± 0.06) prevented PTB (P<0.05)
by extending gestational length in ST mice, with a further significant
extension of gestational length conferred by 15dPGJ2+P4 (19.6± 0.1).
Litter sizes were similar among these groups. However, R5020 delayed
labor (21.76± 0.08) resulting in stillbirth or dystocia. Birth weight was
reduced in ST (0.98± 0.01 gr) vs. NST mice (1.3± 0.01, P<0.05). Both
15dPGJ2 (1.18± 0.01) or P4 (1.13± 0.01) increased birth weight in ST
mice (P<0.05), with further improvement by 15dPGJ2+P4 (1.2± 0.01).
56A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Compared to ST mice (4.5± 0.5 ng/ml), serum P4 levels were higher in
15dPGJ2 (12.6± 3.5, P=0.08) or P4 (20.3± 3.6, P<0.01) treated mice.
15dPGJ2+P4 treatment (36.3± 6.2, P<0.001) resulted in the highest P4
level. ST mice displayed increased uterine Fkbp5, Oxtr and Akr1c18
levels, all of which were inhibited by 15dPGJ2 or 15dPGJ2+P4 (P<0.001).
Conclusion: Our results indicate that 15dPGJ2 and P4 co-treatment
maximizes pregnancy outcomes by extending gestation, enhancing birth
weight, inhibiting labor-initiating genes, and sustaining high serum P4
levels, thereby preventing maternal stress-induced PTB in mice. These
findings support 15dPGJ2 with P4 as an optimal therapeutic approach to
prevent or delay PTB. Supported by NICHD R41HD113465.
O-025
Concurrent Targeting of Connexin 43 and the β3 Adrenergic Receptor
Relaxes Human Myometrium and Delays Birth in C57BL/6 Mice.
Scott D Barnett, Iain L.O. Buxton∗. University of Nevada, Reno School
of Medicine, Reno, NV, United States.
Introduction: Approximately 15 million preterm births (PTB) occur
annually worldwide and there are no FDA-approved tocolytic therapies
that reliably allow for a pregnancy to carry to term. Multiple contractile
pathways converge at time of parturition to ensure productive contractions,
and traditional “one drug, one target” approaches to tocolysis have proven
unsuccessful. Our laboratory has identified dysregulated pathways unique
to PTL myometrium; specifically, nitric oxide (NO) production and
metabolism, aberrant protein S-nitrosation, and gap junction channel
expression and activity. We hypothesize that ‘combination tocolysis’
via β3 adrenergic receptor (β3AR) agonism (mirabegron) and Cx43 gap
junction channel antagonism (18α-glycyrrhetinic acid; 18α-GA) will relax
oxytocin (OT) simulated myometrium and will delay birth in a mouse
model of preterm labor (mifepristone).
Methods: Human myometrial strips (n=3 term non-laboring) were
isometrically stretched in an organ bath containing Krebs buffer (37°C
with balanced oxygen; 95% O2, 5% CO2). Tissues (treatment and control)
were then sequentially challenged with KCl (60 mM) and oxytocin
(8 nM) then exposed to a combination of 18α-GA and MBG at their
previously determined EC20 concentrations (30μM/10μM) for one hour.
Data were analyzed with LabChart®. Pregnant C57BL/6 mice (n=3)
were prophylactically administration of MBG (4.5 mg/kg/day) + 18α-GA
(10 mg/kg/day) once daily (IP) from gestational day 11-13, followed by
mifepristone (150μg, SQ) on gestational day 13. Control animals were
administered vol. equiv. of drug dilutant (PBS:DMSO) ± mifepristone.
Results: Co-administration of 18α-GA and mirabegron at their EC20
concentrations in an organ bath containing human myometrial tissue (n=3)
resulted in a synergistic ~49% (± 3.9) decrease in ‘area under the curve’,
followed by a partial return to normal contraction after washout. In our a
PTL mouse model, mice prophylactically co-administrated mirabegron
+ 18α-GA from gestational day 11-13, followed by mifepristone on
gestational day 13, showed in a delay of birth to gestation day 19.33 (±
1.18 days, SD, n=3), a delay of 5.08 days, on par with untreated mice
which deliver at gestational day 19.34 days post coitus (± 0.23 days,
SD, n=8). Mice administered mifepristone only (no prophylaxis) gave
birth on gestational day 14.3, 16.1 hours (± 2.2 hrs SD, n=15) post drug
administration.
Conclusion: These data indicate that ‘combination tocolysis’ using
the Cx43 GJC inhibitor, 18α-GA, and the β3AR agonist, mirabegron,
produce synergistic negative inotropic effects over the use of individual
drugs, which may allow for effective tocolysis at reduced concentrations.
Further, our finding that the prophylactic co-administration of these drugs
allows for pregnancy to carry to term in a preterm model of pregnancy
indicates strong therapeutic potential of these drugs when used in concert.
O-026
A New Bedside Blood Test for Early Prediction of Adverse Prenatal
Outcomes: From Bench to Clinical Implementation. Sylvain Ladame,
Marc Soler†, Brenna Parke, Vasso Terzidou, Phillip Bennett, Lynne Sykes,
David MacIntyre. Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB) is the number one killer of new-borns
globally and those babies who survive are at greater risk for lifelong
health complications. Most preterm births (PTBs) occur in women with
no identifiable risk factors and occur in first pregnancies. Current tests
suffer from limited predictive values, making them unsuitable for early
prediction and patient stratification. We have recently identified and
validated microRNAs that are heavily deregulated, from as early as the
twelfth week of pregnancy, in the blood of pregnant women who end
up delivering preterm. Here, we reason that a simple screening blood
test based on the detection of these maternal biomarkers, offered to all
women during their first antenatal appointment, can enable clinicians
to identify women at risk of adverse prenatal outcomes (more effective
triage) so they can be monitored more closely throughout the rest of their
pregnancy and treated, if necessary, with preventative measures when
they are most effective.
Methods: We have recently developed an innovative assay for the
detection of miRNA biomarkers directly from unprocessed blood plasma
using a flow cytometer, an instrument already readily found in clinic, in
most haematology services. Briefly, the technology relies on a sandwich
assay between micro- and nano-particles, both functionalised with bespoke
peptide nucleic acid (or PNA) hybridisation probes complementary to the
3’ and 5’ ends of the same miRNA biomarkers. An assay with a simple
workflow was developed whereby a small volume of unprocessed blood
plasma is added to a mixture of bespoke particles and directly analysed.
In the presence of the biomarker of interest, a new population of particle
complexes with characteristic properties (size and fluorescence) can be
detected by flow cytometry in a quantitative manner.
Results: Probes directed against miR-150 and miR-374a have been
synthesised and characterised. Assays for the detection of each miRNA
were first developed and validated (technically and clinically) individually.
Multiplexed detection (through either size encoding or colour encoding)
of these two miRNAs in a single assay was also demonstrated in vitro and
validated on human plasma samples. Our test was capable to predict true
outcome of pregnancy from as little as 5 microliters of maternal blood
plasma. Qualitative research has also been carried out to assess pathways
to clinical implementation and patient acceptability.
Conclusion: A novel Non-Invasive Prenatal Test (NIPT) at first antenatal
appointment and based on the detection of a small panel of microRNAs
(miRNAs) directly from unprocessed maternal blood plasma using
instruments already readily available in clinic can identify women at high
risk of PTB and improve risk stratification to further reduce the incidence
of adverse prenatal outcomes.
O-027
Molecular Effects in Human Placenta Due to Heat Exposure during
Pregnancy. Khondoker Mehedi Akram, Eleanor Dodd, Dilly Anumba∗.
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Studies have demonstrated a strong association between
heat exposure during pregnancy and increased risk of preterm birth (PTB).
A 5% increase in risk of PTB per 1 °C increase in temperature and 16%
increase during heatwaves have been reported. The WHO highlighted
that a rise of the daily temperature of 1 °C over 23.9 °C increases the risk
of infant death by 22.4%. Heat exposure associated with climate change
poses a significant threat to pregnancy outcomes by mechanisms that could
involve altered placental function. The aim of the study was to evaluate
placental molecular function due to exposure to high environmental
temperatures during pregnancy in term and preterm births.
Methods: We compared bioinformatics analysis on RNA-seq data from
term and preterm human villous placentas delivered during summer in the
UK, to those delivered during winter. To evaluate the effects of varying
temperatures on trophoblast cell dynamics and gene expression, we
conducted experiments on cytotrophoblast (CTB) (BeWo) and extravillous
trophoblast (EVT) (HTR-8/SVneo) cell lines.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 57A
Thursday Orals
Results: We identified 48 significantly differentially expressed genes
(DEGs) and 17 upregulated inflammatory and immune-regulatory
signalling pathways, including NF-κB, IL-17, toll-like receptor, and
chemokine signalling, in warm-exposed preterm placentas compared
to cold-exposed preterm placentas (FDR < 0.5). Gene Ontology (GO)
analysis revealed upregulated processes including neutrophil, monocyte,
and lymphocyte chemotaxis, and humoral immune responses, in warmexposed
preterm placentas. Findings in term placentas were unremarkable.
Variable culture temperatures exerted distinct effects on CTB and EVT
cell lines. Lower temperatures (36 °C) significantly inhibited EVT cell
proliferation, increased mesenchymal morphology, and facilitated cell
migration compared to the control (37 °C). Higher temperatures (38 °C)
had opposite effects, inhibiting cell migration (p < 0.05). In contrast, higher
and lower temperatures did not affect CTB cell proliferation, but distinct
gene expression patterns were observed in RNA-seq analysis. Culturing
at 38°C reduced the number of DEGs three-fold compared to 36 °C, via
downregulation of DNA replication and RNA polymerase signalling. GO
analysis identified upregulated epigenetic signalling processes, including
DNA methylation and heterochromatin formation, in CTB cells cultured
for 72 h at 38 °C.
Conclusion: Our data suggest that heat exposure during pregnancy may
enhance inflammatory signallings in the villous placenta and potentially
alter CTB and EVT functions, which could contribute to PTB. The
underlying molecular changes may be associated with epigenetic
alterations.
O-028
Indigenous First Nations Maternal Mortality, Food Security, and
Land Use. Contessa Ricci†∗,1 Melodi Wynne,2 Lynette Pflueger,2 Julie
Postma,3 Luciana Hebert.1 1Washington State University, Seattle, WA,
United States; 2Spokane Tribal Network, Spokane, WA, United States;
3Washington State University, Spokane, WA, United States.
Introduction: Causes of poor Indigenous maternal health outcomes
are complex but diet is a major aspect of health disparities generally.
Traditional foods are important to food security for Indigenous Peoples yet
traditional food availability is declining from environmental degradation.
Indigenous Peoples are therefore also reliant on Western food markets.
A main contributor to environmental degradation is agriculture, with
over half of US lands dedicated to agricultural use. We hypothesized
that interactions between prevalences of large agricultural operations
and food security would be associated with Indigenous First Nations
maternal mortality.
Methods: CDC data were paired with USDA data to identify geographic
characteristics related to American Indian/Alaskan Native (AI/AN)
pregnancy-associated maternal mortality. Geographic characteristics were
aggregated at the county level and included food security variables and
total acreage dedicated to large agricultural operations. A Native foods
insecurity index was calculated by collapsing USDA data reflecting
barriers to traditional food access identified in published literature.
Counties where AI/AN maternal mortality occurred were compared to
state-matched random counties where AI/AN mortality did not occur (i.e.,
if 5 mortalities occurred in StateA, 5 counties in StateA where mortality
did not occur were randomly selected). Linear models were weighted by
inverse probability scores and performances were compared to identify
the best model explaining the relationship between food security, land
use, and AI/AN maternal mortality.
Results: Performances of 7 linear models were compared. The best model
described AI/AN maternal mortality occurrence by large agricultural
operation acreage, Western food insecurity, and Native foods insecurity
(model P < 0.001, multiple adj R2 = 0.222, RMSE = 0.425). The model
indicated a significant effect of Western food insecurity and a nearly
significant effect of Native foods insecurity (P = 0.045 and P = 0.052,
respectively). The model also showed significant interaction between large
agricultural operation acreage and Native foods insecurity (P = 0.007).
Conclusion: We show AI/AN maternal mortality occurs more often where
AI/AN populations experience higher rates of Western food insecurity
in association with greater acreage for large agricultural operations. Our
data suggest this relationship can be buffered by Native foods security
to an extent, however, no counties with both high rates of Native foods
security and high levels of large agricultural operation acreage were
observed. Overall, we identify land use patterns that are associated with
AI/AN food security and AI/AN maternal mortality events.
O-029
Pregnancy Hormones Downregulate ILC3 Cytokine Production to
Prevent Trophoblast Impairment. Chiara A. Drechsler†, Jens Ehrhardt,
Marek Zygmunt∗, Damián O. Muzzio∗. University Medicine Greifswald,
Greifswald, Germany.
Introduction: Successful pregnancy greatly depends on an adequate
invasion, implantation and function of the trophoblast. These events
are associated with a pro-inflammatory immune milieu. A complex
immune balance is maintained to guarantee the tolerance towards the
semi-allogenic fetus and prevent excessive pro-inflammatory reactions.
Recently, type 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3) were described at the fetomaternal
interface. Their primary function is immunomodulation by the
production of cytokines, especially the pro-inflammatory IL-8, IL-17 and
IL-22 (hereafter ‘type 3 cytokines’). In this work, we investigated how
these cytokines influence the trophoblast. Moreover, the regulation of
ILC3 cytokine production during pregnancy was studied.
Methods: Expression of type 3 cytokine receptors by trophoblast cell lines
(HTR-8/SVneo, JEG-3) was evaluated by immunofluorescence staining (n
= 3). Trophoblasts were further stimulated with type 3 cytokines for 24 h
(n = 6). Cell proliferation and viability were assessed by flow cytometry.
Metabolic activity was measured by cell titer blue assay. Gene expression
of VEGFA and CGB was analysed by qPCR. Protein expression of VEGF,
hCG and progesterone was examined by ELISA. A sprouting-assay was
performed to assess trophoblast invasiveness (n = 6). In vitro differentiated
ILC3s from human cord blood CD34+ precursors were stimulated with
sex steroids estradiol, progesterone and TGF-β1 for 48 h. Subsequently,
type 3 cytokine production by ILC3s was analysed by flow cytometry
(n = 6). Data were analysed by t-test or one-way ANOVA (Dunnett’s
post-test or Šidák correction). A P or Padj value < 0.05 was considered
statistically significant.
Results: HTR-8/SVneo and JEG-3 expressed receptors for all three type
3 cytokines. IL-8, IL-17 and IL-22 stimulation significantly increased
proliferation and viability of the trophoblasts as well as metabolic activity
of JEG-3. VEGF, hCG and progesterone expression was significantly
decreased in JEG-3 following type 3 cytokine stimulation. IL-17
stimulation significantly decreased hCG secretion in HTR-8/SVneo. Type
3 cytokines did not influence invasiveness of trophoblasts. The production
of type 3 cytokines by ILC3s was significantly decreased after stimulation
with progesterone, estradiol and TGF-β1.
Conclusion: Type 3 cytokines strongly affect trophoblast function by
modulating cell proliferation, viability and secretory capacity. Detrimental
effects of ILC3-derived cytokines on trophoblast secretory capacity are
prevented by hormonal control of type 3 cytokine production during
pregnancy.
O-030
Environmental Contaminants Identified via Non-Targeted Plasma
Metabolomics in Euploid Early Pregnancy Loss. Dimitri Abrahamsson,1
Bahar D Yilmaz†,1 Xiaowen Ji,2 Amrita Nagasuri,1 Mona Aminbeidokhti,1
David Huang,1 Hakan Cakmak,1 Marcelle I Cedars,1 Tomiko Oskotsky,1
Marina Sirota,1 Aleksandar Rajkovic∗.1,1 1University of California, San
Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States; 2NYU Grossman School
of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
Introduction: Early pregnancy loss (EPL) affects approximately 15%
of clinical pregnancies, with a subset of cases involving euploid losses
that are not attributed to genetic abnormalities. This study investigates
potential environmental exposures linked to euploid EPL by employing
a non-targeted metabolomics approach to compare affected cases with
healthy pregnancies.
Methods: Plasma samples were collected from 56 women with confirmed
euploid EPL (cases) and 10 women with ongoing, healthy pregnancies
(controls). All EPL cases had a normal uterine cavity evaluation,
and pregnancy tissue was verified as euploid by microarray. Plasma
58A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
samples underwent cold methanol extraction and were analyzed using
liquid chromatography-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry in
both positive and negative electrospray ionization (ESI) modes. Batch
correction was performed on the data using ComBat. Hierarchical
clustering and simple regression were applied with multiple hypothesis
correction (Benjamini-Hochberg) to identify significant associations. Data
analysis and visualization were performed using Python and seaborn.
Results: A total of 65,421 compounds were identified, with 1,598 showing
significant differential enrichment between EPL cases and healthy controls
(p<0.01). Age, BMI, and mode of conception did not differ significantly
between the groups. Hierarchical clustering revealed distinct metabolomic
signatures between the case and control groups. Elevated levels of several
exogenous compounds were found in EPL cases, including tryptophan
(p-value=5.69E-06), an essential amino acid that must be obtained through
diet and has previously been found as associated with pregnancy loss,
as well as triacetin (p-value=0.00113), a multi-use chemical found in
cigarette filters, rocket fuels, perfumes, cosmetics, and pharmaceuticals,
including as a topical antifungal medication. Consistent with the
association between low progesterone levels and non-viable pregnancy,
progesterone levels were significantly lower in the cases compared to the
controls (p-value=0.0018).
Conclusion: The distinct metabolomic profiles observed in euploid EPL
cases identified enrichment of a compound previously found associated
with recurrent pregnancy loss and suggest that specific environmental
contaminants, such as triacetin, may be associated with pregnancy loss.
The identification of known and novel non-endogenous compounds
through non-targeted plasma metabolomics highlights its potential to
reveal environmental risk factors for pregnancy loss, warranting further
research into their role in euploid EPL pathophysiology.
O-031
Microparticles and Micropollutants in Human Umbilical Cord. Jacob
Garcia†,1 Rodrigo Weingrill,2 Johann Urschitz,2 Men-Jean Lee.1 1University
of Hawaii JABSOM, Honolulu, HI, United States; 2University of Hawaii
at Manoa, Honolulu, HI, United States.
Introduction: Microparticles and micropollutants have been detected
in various human tissues, including the placenta, lungs, breast milk,
kidneys, and blood plasma. Our previous research identified microplastics,
polymeric dyes, and inorganic dyes in human placental tissue. The current
study aims to investigate the presence of these particles in umbilical cord
tissue to assess whether they cross the placenta into the fetal compartment.
Methods: Human placenta and umbilical cord (n=10) were collected
during cesarean sections in 2023 from patients with term, uncomplicated
pregnancies, following a plastic-free collection protocol in Hawaii.
Placental tissue (n=10, 50g) and umbilical cord tissue (n=10, 10g)
were washed with glass-filtered water, digested in a glass-filtered 10%
KOH solution for 7 days at room temperature, and then filtered using a
24 mm/1.6μm pore glass filter. A 4 cm² area of the filter was analyzed
utilizing Raman Microscopy with an 830 nm laser. The Raman spectra
of the microparticles were characterized using KnowItAll software and
SLOPP/SLOPPE Libraries.
Results: Microplastic and microparticle dyes were identified in 4/10
umbilical cord samples with a mean number of 0.050 microparticles
per gram, and 9/10 placenta samples with a mean number of 0.038
microparticles per gram. Inorganic hematite dye microparticles were
identified in 8/10 umbilical cord samples with a mean number of 0.360
microparticles per gram and 7/10 placenta samples with a mean number
of 0.026 microparticles per gram.
Conclusion: This study demonstrates the presence of microparticles in
human placental tissue and umbilical cord samples, including polymers,
polymeric dyes, and inorganic dyes such as hematite. The detection of
these microparticles in the umbilical cord suggests their passage across the
placental barrier into the fetal compartment. Neuroendocrine disruptors
found in these microparticles may directly reach the fetus leading to
harmful developmental effects. Further research is necessary to elucidate
the underlying mechanisms and potential downstream effects.
O-032
Identification and Validation of DNA Binding Factors That Control
Differentiation of Human Trophoblast Stem Cells in 3D Culture.
Danielle Sadowski, Cassandra Norbeck, Hannah Craven, Sunna Mujteba,
Sarah Wernimont∗, Micah D Gearhart∗. University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, MN, United States.
Introduction: Appropriate differentiation of cytotrophoblasts during
gestation is necessary to fulfill the nutritional, oxygen, and waste
requirements of the developing fetus. 3D cultures of human trophoblast
stem (hTS) cells form organoid-like spheres containing self-renewing
cytotrophoblasts and differentiated syncytiotrophoblasts. Our previous
work has shown that unlike 2D cultures induced to differentiate with
cAMP agonists, 3D organoid-like cultures of hTS cells in trophoblast
organoid media (TOM) can recapitulate some aspects of loss-of-function
phenotypes observed in vivo using mouse models. To better understand
the transcriptional gene regulatory networks that control trophoblast
differentiation, we sought to develop CRISPR/Cas9 editing methodologies
to rapidly evaluate candidate DNA binding factors controlling hTS
differentiation in vitro.
Methods: We generated hTS lines that express constitutive rtTA and
doxycycline-inducible Cas9 from each allele of the AAVS1 safe-harbor
locus. Clonal lines capable of 10^4-fold induction of Cas9 following a 12hr
pulse of 2 ug/ml doxycycline were selected. Next we mined epigenetic and
transcriptomic data from 3D hTS models of autonomous differentiation
versus self-renewing hTS cells and syncytiotrophoblasts induced with
the cAMP agonist forskolin to identify candidate DNA-binding factors
as potential drivers of differentiation. Dual gRNAs flanking DNA binding
regions of candidate factors were cloned into lentiviral vectors carrying
puromycin resistance using NEBuilder HiFi assembly. Virally transduced,
puromycin resistant cells were treated with dox, genotyped using PCR
to access deletion efficiency, and subsequently seeded into Matrigel with
TOM media. Organoid-like cells were extracted after eight days and
transcription was analyzed by qRT-PCR.
Results: We found that inducible Cas9 hTS lines were able to efficiently
edit loci with proximally located gRNAs. We also identified ELF5, IKZF4,
ZBTB7C and the non-coding RNA FIRRE as regulators of trophoblast
differentiation in 3D cell culture. Specifically, inactivation of ELF5
resulted in a decrease in expression of CGB2 (lfc= -0.67, p=0.01) and
HSD11B2 (lfc=-1.1, p=0.44). This deletion also causes a downregulation
of OVOL1 (lfc=-0.841, p=0.056) whereas guides targeting the DNA
binding domain of ZBTB7C lead to an increase in the expression of
OVOL1 (lfc=0.29,p=0.02). IKZF4 inactivation resulted in a decrease
of syncytiotrophoblast marker ERVW1 (lfc=-0.75, p=0.035). CRISPR/
Cas9 deletion of the locus encoding the FIRRE noncoding RNA led to a
decrease in ASCL2 expression (lfc=-0.31,p=0.02).
Conclusion: We have engineered hTS cell lines amenable to highthroughput
loss-of-function studies and identified several candidate
transcription factors that control human trophoblast differentiation in vitro.
O-033
Nuclear Subtypes in the Giant, Multinucleated Placenta
Syncytiotrophoblast Cell Respond to Environmental Cues. Madeline
Keenen†, Liheng Yang, Veronica Farmer†, Carolyn Coyne, Amy
Gladfelter∗. Duke, Durham, NC, United States.
Introduction: The syncytiotrophoblast (STB) is single, giant cell with
billions of nuclei and is crucial for nutrient exchange, metabolism,
and hormone production during pregnancy. The STB is surrounded by
maternal blood, and therefore must respond to fluctuating extracellular
stress like hypoxia, oxidative stress, and inflammation How does
this single cell support these diverse homeostatic functions while
simultaneously adapting to extracellular stress? Our recent work reveals
that STB nuclei can express distinct gene sets to carry out specialized
functions. In trophoblast organoids (TOs), we identified three nuclear
subtypes, mirroring those found in vivo: a juvenile subtype expressing both
cytotrophoblast and STB markers (STB-juv), a stress-responsive subtype
(STB-oxygen), and a fully differentiated subtype involved in transport and
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 59A
Thursday Orals
GTPase signaling (STB-mature). I hypothesize that environmental cues
influence the distribution of these subtypes, allowing the STB to adjust
its functions and maintain homeostasis.
Methods: Using TOs as a model, we examined how changes in
extracellular matrix and oxygen conditions affect the distribution of STB
nuclei of each subtype. TOs were cultured in Matrigel (inducing inverted
STB polarity, STBin) or in suspension (restoring native STB polarity,
STBout). TOs were also exposed to varying oxygen levels: hypoxic (1%
O2), physiological (5% O2, mirroring term), and hyperoxic (20% O2).
Subtype distributions were analyzed using single-nuclear RNA sequencing
and RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).
Results: STBout TOs showed increased expression of STB markers,
hormones, and transport receptors, with a higher proportion of STBmature
nuclei. Conversely, STBin TOs exhibited more STB-juv and STBoxygen
nuclei, suggesting reduced differentiation and heightened oxygen
response. Organoids grown in Matrigel often exhibit hypoxic interiors.
To test if oxygen influences STB nuclear subtype proportions, I grew
TOs in hypoxia and found a direct correlation between low oxygen and
increased STB-oxygen subtype representation. In contrast, physiological
oxygen levels promoted cell-cell fusion and the STB-mature subtype,
while hyperoxia resulted in intermediate subtype proportions.
Conclusion: These findings demonstrate that STB nuclear subtypes
dynamically adjust in response to environmental changes. Ongoing
research will explore the molecular mechanisms driving this specialization
and its implications for STB function in health and pregnancy-related
diseases.
O-034
Natriuretic Peptide B Involvement in Hemochorial Placentation
and Maternal Adaptations to Pregnancy. Marija Kuna,1 Esteban M.
Dominguez†,1 Khursheed Iqbal,1 Michael J. Soares∗.1,2 1University of
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States; 2Children’s Mercy,
Kansas City, MO, United States.
Introduction: Pregnancy is characterized by maternal adaptations
to support the growing fetus. Virtually every maternal organ exhibits
some accommodation to the challenges of viviparity. These maternal
adaptations are hypothesized to be mediated by hormones, growth factors,
and cytokines produced by the placenta. Natriuretic peptide B (NPPB)
is hormone produced by the placenta with known actions on maternal
cardiovascular physiology. We propose that NPPB may be responsible
for gestational-dependent coordination of a subset of maternal adaptations
required for a healthy pregnancy.
Methods: Expression and actions of NPPB were examined in the rat.
Distributions of transcripts for Nppb and its receptor, natriuretic peptide
receptor 1 (Npr1), were assessed in rat placentation sites using in situ
hybridization and RT-qPCR. In vivo actions of NPPB were assessed
following disruption of the rat Nppb gene using CRISPR/Cas9 genome
editing. Wild type and Nppb null placentation sites were investigated
using histological and transcriptome analyses.
Results: Nppb transcript levels increase in abundance throughout gestation
in invasive trophoblast cells within the uterine-placental interface (UPI)
and in the junctional zone (JZ) of the placenta, where invasive trophoblast
cells originate. Nppb transcript expression increased as rat trophoblast
stem cells progressed from stem to differentiation states. NPPB acts on
its target cells through the engagement of NPR1. Npr1 is expressed in
endothelial cells of the spiral arteries, which are near both NPPB positive
endovascular and interstitial invasive trophoblast cells. A germline Nppb
mutant rat model was generated and possessed a 975 bp deletion resulting
in removal of the entire NPPB coding sequence. Heterozygous breeding
yielded Mendelian ratios indicative of decreased survival among Nppb
null pups. NPPB disruption did not impair compartmental organization
of the placentation site, nor did it adversely affect intrauterine trophoblast
cell invasion. However, Nppb disruption did impact the size of the JZ and
architecture of vasculature within the UPI.
Conclusion: In summary, we identified a potential intrauterine cell-cell
signaling pathway involving NPPB produced by invasive trophoblast cells
acting on endothelial cells expressing NPR1. Our current efforts involve
investigating NPPB-regulated invasive trophoblast cell-endothelial
cell dynamics and the systemic actions of placental NPPB on maternal
adaptations to pregnancy. [Supported by postdoctoral fellowships from the
KUMC Biomedical Training Program (MK), KINBRE, P20 GM103418
(MK), NIH grants (HD020676, HD105734, HD112559), and the Sosland
Foundation]
O-035
SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a-Mediated Modulation of Intercellular Dynamics
via Tunneling Nanotubes and Extracellular Vesicles. Deepak Kumar,
Indira U Mysorekar∗. Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United
States.
Introduction: SARS-CoV-2 infection during pregnancy significantly
elevates the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. However, mechanistic
investigations into whether and how SARS-CoV-2 disrupts placental
homeostasis are limited. We previously demonstrated that SARS-CoV-2
gains entry, replicates, within and alters cellular homeostasis. SARSCoV-
2 accessory protein, ORF3a (Open Reading Frame 3a), plays multiple
roles in viral replication and is also highly mutable similar to Spike. Here,
we tested the hypothesis that the SARS-CoV-2 accessory protein, ORF3a,
serves as a key modulator of placental trophoblast cell dynamics via
inducing secretory autophagy flux, extracellular vesicle (EV) secretion;
and formation of Tunneling nanotubes (TNT) to potentially spread viral
proteins to non-permissive cells.
Methods: Human trophoblast stem cell-derived trophoblast organoids
(SC-TOs) were transduced with ORF3a-expressing lentivirus and cultured
trophoblast cell lines were transfected with recombinant ORF3a or
infected with live SARS-CoV-2 to comprehensively evaluate impact of
infection on trophoblast function. Autophagic flux was assessed through
quantification of autophagy markers, LC3 and P62. Utilizing western
blotting, immunofluorescence , and confocal imaging techniques, we
examined the impact of ORF3a on autophagy dynamics, EV and TNT
formation. ORF3a-expressing SC-TOs were generated and conditioned
media derived from ORF3a-transduced SC-TOs was harvested and added
to naive SC-TOs lacking ORF3a. IF and western blot analyses were
conducted to detect the presence of ORF3a within secretory vesicles
labeled with CD63, an exosome marker and autophagy markers. TNT
formation was imaged via confocal microscopy. Statistical analyses were
conducted using T-tests and one-way analyses of variance (ANOVA) with
post hoc tests, with statistical significance set at p<0.05.
Results: Mechanistically, we showed that the SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a
protein, uniquely 1) induces increased EV secretion via secretory
autophagy; 2) induces formation of TNTs to potentially spread viral
proteins to non-permissive cells; 3) Stem cell-derived trophoblast
organoids (SC-TOs) transfected with ORF3a+lentivirus show impaired
syncytialization and increased TNT formation.
Conclusion: Our work shows a novel molecular and cellular mechanism
involving the SARS-CoV-2 accessory protein ORF3a, which likely
contributes to the virus ability to infect the placenta . Our findings indicate
that the ORF3a protein has the capability to be secreted from cells within
extracellular vesicles potentially influencing neighboring healthy cells and
may explain mechanisms underlying long-term placental effects, even in
the absence of the virus. ORF3a interaction with host factors will further
understanding and potentially targeting interventions to combat SARSCoV-
2 infection in pregnancy.
O-036
Placentas Exhibit Sexually Dimorphic Immune Responses to
Circulating Cell-Free Mitochondrial DNA. Renee da Silva†,1 Nataliia
Hula†,1 Desirae Escarela,1 Isabelle Gorham†,2 Nicole Phillips,2 Styliani
Goulopoulou∗.1 1Loma Linda Univeristy, Loma Linda, CA, United States;
2University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, United
States.
Introduction: Circulating cell-free mtDNA (ccf-mtDNA) is a marker of
tissue damage, cellular stress, and senescence. Once mtDNA is released
into the extracellular space it is recognized by the innate immune
receptor, Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9), and induces pro-inflammatory
and immunogenic responses. ccf-mtDNA concentrations are altered in
preeclampsia and intrauterine growth restriction and may contribute to
60A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
the inflammatory responses seen in these conditions. Placental tissues
show sex-dependent responses to immune triggers associated with
bacterial and viral infections; however, the effect of fetal sex on placental
responses to ccf-mtDNA remains unknown. We hypothesized that an in
vivo challenge with extracellular mtDNA would induce an inflammatory
response in rat placenta via activation of TLR9 signaling and this effect
will be sex-dependent.
Methods: We treated pregnant Sprague Dawley rats (gestational day:
14-15, term=22-23 days) with mtDNA (300υg/kg, isolated from rat liver),
saline (control), or mtDNA+ODN 2088 (ODN2088: TLR9 antagonist,
60υg/kg) via intravenous injection. Following 4 hours, fetoplacental units
were collected for sex determination, gene and protein expression analysis
of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines, and components
of TLR9 signaling.
Results: Placental mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory marker tumor
necrosis factor-alpha (TNFɑ) increased in response to mtDNA, and this
increase was greater in placentas from female compared to male fetuses
(treatment by sex interaction, p<0.0001). TNFɑ protein content increased
only in placentas of male fetuses (p=0.013). Only placentas from male
fetuses showed an increase in mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory
cytokines interleukin(IL)-6 and IL-1β in response to mtDNA (p=0.009).
Anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-10 and IL-4 increased in the placentas
of male (p<0.0001) and female fetuses (p=0.038), respectively. mtDNA
treatment induced a greater increase in mRNA expression of monocyte
chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) in placentas from female fetuses in
comparison to male fetuses (p=0.012). TLR9 mRNA expression increased
in placentas from both female and male fetuses in response to mtDNA
(p<0.0001 vs. saline). TLR9 antagonist reduced mRNA expression
of MCP-1 only in placentas of female fetuses from mtDNA-treated
pregnancies (p=0.003), while mRNA expression of IL-4 increased in
placentas from both female and male fetuses (p<0.0001).
Conclusion: The placenta exhibits sexually dimorphic immune and
inflammatory responses to circulating cell-free mitochondrial DNA.
O-037
A Single Nuclear and Spatial Transcriptomic Atlas of the Contractile
and Atonic Gravid Human Uterus Reveals Two Distinct Smooth Muscle
Cell Populations. Jessica Ansari, Daiana Fornes, Carsten Knutsen, Lynn
Yang, Guillermina Michel, Alex Kum, Douglas Henze, Cristina Alvira,
Stephen Quake, David Cornfield∗. Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, CA, United States.
Introduction: Traditional single cell RNA sequencing methodology
fails to capture most smooth muscle cells (SMC) in the gravid human
uterus due their large size. Single nuclear RNA sequencing (snRNAseq)
bypasses these size constraints. We present the first snRNAseq atlas of
the gravid human uterus. We define two SMC populations, validated by
spatial transcriptomic and in situ hybridization (ISH) methodology. We
leverage this dataset to demonstrate differential gene expression in uterine
SMC from patients with postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) from uterine atony.
Methods: Sample collection and selection: After informed consent,
myometrial biopsies (1cm2) were obtained from the midline of the
hysterotomy at cesarean delivery. snRNAseq: From our biobank of 150
myometrial samples, 15 were selected for snRNA-seq based on clinical
course: 4 nonlaboring patients with PPH from uterine atony, 3 laboring
patients, and 8 nonlaboring controls matched by gestational age, race/
ethnicity, and comorbidities. Nuclei were isolated from flash-frozen tissue
using the 10X Chromium kit. cDNA libraries were prepared with Next
GEM Single Cell 3ʹ Reagent Kits and sequenced on Illumina. Differential
expression between uterine atony and control samples was measured
using pseudobulk samples for per cell type for each patient then tested
with DESeq2. Spatial transcriptomics: A selectgene panel was created
for MERFISH using our snRNAseq data and recent publications. Slides
from paraffin-embedded samples were processed using the MERSCOPE
Platform. RNAscopeTM ISH: ADC multiplex fluorescent kits were used
to visualize SMC type-differentiating transcripts in tissue .
Results: In snRNAseq (n=15), we identified 18 cell populations, with the
most abundant types: vascular endothelial cells, lymphatic endothelial
cells, vessel fibroblasts, uterine SMCs (uSMC), and vascular smooth
muscle cells (vSMCs). The 2 SMC subtypes were differentiated by DPP6,
OXTR, and KCNMA1 in uSMC vs NOTCH3, ADGRL3, and PDE3A in
vSMC, validated by spatial transcriptomics (n=5) and RNAscope (n=4).
uSMC generally grouped together, whereas vSMC colocalized strongly
with endothelial cells and vessel fibroblasts. In uSMCs from patients with
uterine atony, extracellular matrix organization (ABI3BP, HPSE3), SMC
differentiation (DOCK3), and apoptosis (ITM2B) were downregulated,
and several pro-proliferative genes (RRAS2, STIL) upregulated.
Conclusion: To our knowledge, we are the first to apply snRNAseq and
MERFISH spatial transcriptomic analysis to the gravid human uterus. We
present novel findings of a distinct gene signature and spatial distribution
of uterine versus vascular SMC and evidence suggesting dysregulation of
uSMC differentiation, apoptosis, and ECM organization in uterine atony.
O-038
Estradiol-17β Differentially Regulates the Expression and CBS/
H2S-Resposnive Sulfhydration of the Forming Subunits (α/β1/γ1) of
Human Uterine Artery BKCa Channels in Pregnancy. Fategbe Tolulope
Olamide†∗. University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, United States.
Introduction: Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) derived from cystathionine
β-synthase (CBS) upregulation is a novel vasodilator to mediate estrogenstimulated
uterine artery (UA) dilation known to be via activating smooth
muscle (SM) large conductance calcium activated potassium (BKCa)
channels. UASM BKCa channels are homotetramers of the ubiquitous
pore-forming α subunits (BKα) with the auxiliary β1 (BKβ1) and γ1
(BKγ1) subunits. Formation of persulfides (-SSH) on reactive cysteine
in proteins (sulfhydration) is the main route that H2S exerts its biological
function directly. This study was to test a hypothesis that estrogens regulate
UA BKCa by stimulating the expression and sulfhydration of its forming
subunits in pregnancy.
Methods: Main UAs were collected from hysterectomies of pregnant
(P) and nonpregnant (NP) women. Primary pregnant human UA smooth
muscle cells (hUASMC) in culture were treated with estradiol (E2β, 10
nM) with/without estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 (ICI, 1 μM)
or CBS inhibitor (CHH, 2 mM) up to 3 days. Total RNA and protein
were prepared to determine levels of BK subunit mRNA by RT-qPCR,
protein by immunoblotting. SSH-proteins were labeled by Tag-switch
and levels of total SSH-proteins and SSH-BK subunits were quantified
by immunoblotting. BKCa activation was determined by patch clamp.
Results: Levels of mRNAs and proteins of BKβ1 and BKγ1, but not
BKα, were significantly greater in P vs. NP UA (p<0.05). Levels of total
SSH-proteins were also significantly higher in P vs. NP UA; SSH-BKα
were the greatest although BKβ1 and BKγ1 were also sulfhydrated in
P>NP UAs. E2β enhanced mRNA and protein of BKβ1 and BKγ1 (but
not BKα) in hUASMC, which was blocked by ICI. E2β also stimulated
SSH of BK subunits in rank order of BKα>>>BKβ1≥BKγ1, which was
inhibited by CHH. E2β and H2S increased UASMC BKCa activity, but
CHH inhibits E2β-stimulated BKCa activation.
Conclusion: Estrogens activate human UASMC BKCa channels
via differentially upregulating the expression and H2S-responsive
sulfhydration of its forming subunits (α/β1/γ1) in pregnancy (Supported
by HL70562&HD105699).
O-039
Sex-Dependent Impaired Cardiac Mitochondrial Energetics in Late
Gestation Fetal Sheep from Obese Pregnancy. B. D. Thackray†,1 A.
L.k. Cochrane,1 R. C. Crew,1 Y. Niu,1 S. H. Davison,1 L. Zuccarelli,2 M.
P. Murphy,1 S. E. Ozanne,1 A. J. Murray,1 D. A. Giussani∗.1 1University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; 2University of Udine, Udine,
Italy.
Introduction: In humans, maternal obesity during pregnancy is linked
with poor offspring cardiometabolic health outcomes. However,
underlying mechanisms remain obscure. Since sheep and humans share
similar prenatal developmental milestones in cardiovascular physiology,
we investigated the control of cardiac mitochondrial respiratory function
in late-gestation fetal sheep using a novel ovine model of maternal obesity
during pregnancy.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 61A
Thursday Orals
Methods: Welsh mountain ewes were fed for 60 days pre-pregnancy and
throughout gestation a control diet (C, recommended daily 200g ration of
18% protein concentrates and ad libitum hay), or an obesogenic diet (OB,
ad libitum access to concentrates and hay). At 130 days of gestational age
(dGA, term is 147 dGA) fetal left-ventricular tissue was excised. Apical
muscle fibre bundles were permeabilised with saponin. Mitochondrial
respiratory capacity and substrate preference were assessed via substrate
inhibitor titration. To determine mitochondrial ADP sensitivity, a separate
titration of ADP was performed with and without creatine. Vmax and Km
ADP
values were estimated by non-linear regression of [ADP] vs. JO2 using
the Michaelis-Menten equation. Data were analysed by two-way ANOVA
(n=8-10 per group). The Tukey post-hoc test isolated differences if the
diet~sex interaction was significant (P<0.05).
Results: There was a significant diet~sex interaction (P=0.02) on fatty acid
oxidation (FAO), showing lower FAO capacity in hearts of OB relative
to C male and OB female fetuses (OB-M: 38.6±9.8 vs. C-M: 51.3±10.3
and OB-F: 47.9±15.2 pmol⋅[s⋅mg]-1). Relative to C, complex II-supported
respiration was lower in OB fetal hearts of both sexes (118.3±32.4 vs.
97.4±26.3pmol⋅[s⋅mg]-1; Pdiet= 0.04). In agreement, complex I-supported
respiration (relative to maximal capacity) was greater in hearts of OB than
C fetuses (0.70±0.09 vs. 0.63±0.10 Pdiet=0.04), collectively suggesting
greater complex I reliance. Mitochondrial ADP sensitivity was lower in
OB relative to C fetal hearts, with greater Km
ADP (0.83± 0.70 vs. 0.38±0.25
mM; Pdiet=0.01) and lower Vmax (51.4±15 vs. 79.7±16.2 pmol⋅[s⋅mg]-1;
Pdiet=<0.0001), with greater sensitivity depression in OB male fetal
hearts. This indicates impaired ADP uptake capacity and phosphorylation
at physiological concentrations in OB fetuses. This effect was partially
normalised by creatine supplementation, suggesting an early dependence
on mitochondrial creatine kinase activity in OB fetuses.
Conclusion: Hearts of sheep fetuses from obese pregnancy show
suppressed respiratory capacity and mitochondrial ADP sensitivity,
with more pronounced effects in males. Therefore, fetuses from obese
pregnancies may be at risk of impaired cardiac energetics at birth and
beyond.
Supported by MRC
O-040
Pregnancy-Specific Programming of Hypertension and Vascular
Dysfunction in Postpartum Rats Exposed to Gestational Intermittent
Hypoxia. Ruolin Song†, Pankaj Yadav†, Alissa Hofmann†, Jay Mishra∗,
Sathish Kumar∗. University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, United States.
Introduction: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a prevalent sleep disorder
among pregnant women, characterized by interrupted breathing during
sleep. OSA has been linked to adverse pregnancy outcomes, including
preeclampsia. Women exposed to preeclampsia have a substantially
increased risk of hypertension after pregnancy, but the mechanism
remains unknown, leaving a missed interventional opportunity. Given
that preeclampsia is associated with increased sensitivity to hypertensive
stimuli and that the angiotensin system plays a crucial role in blood
pressure regulation, we hypothesized that intermittent hypoxia (IH)
exposure, a key feature of OSA, during pregnancy primes the maternal
vasculature for enhanced angiotensin II responsiveness and vascular
dysfunction postpartum.
Methods: To test this hypothesis, we used a rat model of OSA, exposing
pregnant rats to gestational IH (GIH) from gestational days 10-21. Two
months postpartum, the rats were challenged with a high-salt water (2%
NaCl) followed by angiotensin II infusion. Blood pressure and vascular
reactivity were then assessed.
Results: GIH exposure resulted in elevated blood pressure, which resolved
after delivery. However, these GIH-exposed rats exhibited a significantly
increased blood pressure and heart rate response to both the high-salt water
and angiotensin II infusion compared to control rats. Ex vivo analysis of
vascular function revealed that the GIH group had exaggerated contractile
responses to potassium depolarization and phenylephrine, indicating
increased vascular reactivity. Furthermore, vasodilation in response to both
the endothelium-dependent vasodilator acetylcholine and the endotheliumindependent
vasodilator sodium nitroprusside was impaired in the GIH
group. Importantly, non-pregnant rats subjected to the same IH protocol
and subsequent challenges did not exhibit these blood pressure changes
or vascular dysfunction, indicating that the observed effects are specific
to GIH exposure during pregnancy.
Conclusion: Intermittent hypoxia during pregnancy contributes to
postpartum hypertension in response to common stressors like high salt
intake and angiotensin II. Further investigation into therapies targeting
vascular hyperresponsiveness could mitigate the increased cardiovascular
risk in women with a history of preeclampsia or gestational OSA.
O-041
Placental Specific Knockdown of Adrenomedullin Improves GDM
Symptoms in a Mouse Model of Diabetic Pregnancy. Kathleen
A. Pennington∗, Simone Hernandez-Ruano, Moises Tacam, Manu
Banadakoppa, Chandra Yallampalli. Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
TX, United States.
Introduction: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a common obstetrical
complication. Previously, we demonstrated that Adrenomedullin (ADM)
increases in women with GDM and plays a negative role in β-cell and
adipose tissue function. Furthermore, we previously reported that infusion
of an ADM antagonist, ADM22-52, attenuates GDM symptoms in our novel
mouse model of diabetic pregnancy. However, the primary source of
increased ADM during pregnancy remains elusive. We hypothesize that
the placenta is the primary source of increased ADM, and that inhibition
of placental ADM will improve GDM symptoms in our mouse model.
Methods: To test this hypothesis, 8-week-old female mice expressing
a placental specific, Cyp19, cre recombinase were randomly assigned
to either a control diet (CD, 10% fat 0% sucrose) or GDM diet (45%
fat, 18% sugar), one week before mating and throughout pregnancy. At
day 3.5 of pregnancy, dams underwent surgery where GDM dams had
either a doxycycline-inducible floxed shRNA-ADM lentiviral vector or
doxycycline-inducible floxed scrambled lentiviral vector injected into
one uterine horn and CD dams had a sham surgery performed, for a total
of 3 groups: CON-sham (n=5), GDM-scrambled (n=4), and GDM-ADM
shRNA (n=4). At day 6.5 of pregnancy, dams were given doxycycline in
their drinking water. At day 16.5 of pregnancy, glucose tolerance tests
were performed. On day 17.5 of pregnancy, dams were euthanized. Blood
and placentas were collected for further analysis. Quantitative real-time
PCR was performed on placentas for ADM mRNA. Serum insulin and
leptin levels were measured by ELISA.
Results: At day 16.5, glucose tolerance was significantly improved
(p<0.05) in GDM-ADM shRNA dams compared to GDM-scrambled
dams; however, GDM-ADM shRNA dams were still glucose intolerant
compared to CON-sham dams. Placental ADM mRNA was significantly
increased (p<0.05) in GDM-scrambled dams compared to both CONsham
and GDM-ADM shRNA dams. Placental ADM RNA levels were
returned to control levels in GDM-ADM shRNA dams. Serum insulin
was increased (p<0.05) in GDM-scrambled compared to CON-sham and
GDM-ADM shRNA dams. Serum insulin levels were returned to control
levels in GDM-ADM shRNA dams. Serum leptin levels were increased in
GDM-scrambled compared to CON-sham dams. There was no significant
difference in serum leptin levels between GDM-ADM shRNA and GDMscrambled
and CON-sham dams.
Conclusion: Placental-specific knockdown of ADM significantly
improved glucose tolerance, dyslipidemia, and β-cell dysfunction.
Placental ADM mRNA data demonstrates that our placental-specific
lentiviral knockdown of ADM is functional. Furthermore, our data
demonstrates that placental ADM appears to be a major driver of GDM
symptoms. Work is ongoing to understand the mechanisms by which
ADM drives GDM symptoms.
62A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
O-042
Maternal Gut Histomorphometric Adaptations to High Fat Diet,
Viral Infection, and Advancing Gestation: Implications for Pregnancy
Health. L Cardoso†,1 T Ferraz†,1 S Mohammadkhani†,1 E Bloise∗,2 K
Connor∗.1 1Carleton U, Ottawa, ON, Canada; 2UFMG, Belo Horizonte,
Brazil.
Introduction: The maternal small intestine (SI) changes during
pregnancy, adapting to the increased energy demands of pregnancy
including an increase in size and weight and reduction in motility.
However, little is known about how maternal SI histomorphometry
adapts over the course of normal pregnancy, which can impact intestinal
absorptive area, and thus nutrient absorption, and gut barrier function.
Additionally, it is unclear how the SI responds to adverse exposures
including high fat (HF) diet/obesity or viral infection, which are common
conditions in pregnancy that can influence nutrient and immune status
of the host and are associated with poor fetal growth and development.
We hypothesised that histomorphometric changes in the maternal SI will
occur across gestation in healthy pregnancy, and that maternal exposure to
a HF diet, infectious challenge, or both, will be associated with intestinal
histomorphometric maladaptations, impairing SI function, and potentially
contributing to poor fetal growth.
Methods: Female C57BL/6J mice exposed to 60% high fat (HF) or control
diet (CON) six weeks before and throughout pregnancy were injected with
the viral mimic Poly(I:C) (POLY) or saline (VEH) 24hr before sample
collection at gestational day (GD) 12.5, 15.5 or 18.5, resulting in four
groups (n=5-8/group/GD): CONVEH, CONPOLY, HFVEH, HFPOLY.
Maternal SI was dissected, fixed, and paraffin-embedded. Sections were
stained with H&E or PAS-Alcian blue to quantify: mucosal height,
villus height, crypt depth, villus surface area, intestinal absorption area
and number of mucin-secreting goblet cells. Fetoplacental weight was
recorded. Effect of gestational age on SI outcomes (one-way ANOVA)
or diet and infection on fetal growth (two-way ANOVA) (Tukey’s post
hoc; p<0.05) were quantified.
Results: There was no effect of gestational age on SI histomorphometry in
CONVEH. In CONPOLY and HFVEH dams, but not HFPOLY, advancing
gestation was associated with increased SI mucosal height, villus height,
villus surface area and intestinal absorption area at GD18.5 compared to
GD12.5 (p<0.05), suggesting changes in SI function, including increased
nutrient absorption potential. Advancing gestation was associated with
an increase in the number of goblet cells in all control-fed (p<0.05), but
not in HF-fed dams at GD18.5 compared to GD12.5, indicating disrupted
barrier function with HF diet. Fetal weight was reduced at GD18.5 in all
infection-exposed dams compared to CONVEH (p<0.05).
Conclusion: This is the first report of histomorphometric changes across
gestation in a mouse model in normal pregnancy and in response to HF
diet and infectious exposure. Histomorphometric adaptations to these
common exposures during pregnancy may affect intestinal absorptive
area and gut barrier function in the mother, which may contribute to the
poor fetal growth seen in these pregnancies.
O-043
Maternal Perceived Ethnic Discrimination Impacts Stress-Responsive
Placental mRNA and miRNA. Francesca Carasi-Schwartz†,1 Tomoko
Kaneko-Tarui,1 Taysir Mahmoud,1 Sebastian Z. Ramos,1 Larry Feig,2 Perrie
O’Tierney-Ginn.1 1Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA, United States; 2Tufts
University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: Maternal stress negatively impacts pregnancy outcomes,
fetal development, and offspring health, though underlying mechanisms
are poorly understood. Placental micro RNAs (miRNAs) targeting cellular
stress-response pathways (miR-34c-5p, miR-181d-5p, miR-192-5p) are
differentially expressed in non-Hispanic Black and non-Hispanic White
patients. We hypothesized that chronic stress, such as experiences of
racism, plays a role, thus the relationship between placental expression
of these miRNAs and maternal stress measures were examined.
Methods: Stress was assessed in 41 healthy pregnant patients using
the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), Perceived Ethnic Discrimination
Questionnaire (PEDQ), and salivary cortisol awakening response (CAR)
in early (12-16 weeks) and late (34-36 weeks) pregnancy. Maternal cortisol
was measured by ELISA in saliva samples collected 0, 30, and 60 min
after waking with CAR calculated as area under the curve. At delivery,
villous samples were collected from the placenta and snap frozen. RNA
was extracted and placental stress-responsive mRNA (OGT, AOC1,
CEBPB, CCL27) and miRNA expression were evaluated using RT-qPCR.
Spearman’s rank correlation tested for association with stress measures
with p<0.05 considered statistically significant.
Results: PEDQ was positively related to miR-34c-5p and miR-181d-
5p during early (r=0.45, p=0.002, r=0.31, p=0.04,) and late pregnancy
(r=0.32, p=0.03, r=0.31, p=0.04,). PEDQ was also positively associated
with multiple placental mRNAs: OGT during early (r=0.44, p=0.003)
and late pregnancy (r=0.34, p=0.02), along with CEBPB (r= 0.42, p=
0.01) and CCL27 (r= 0.31, p= 0.04) only during early pregnancy. Early
(r=-0.32, p=0.04) and late (r= -0.34, p=0.03) pregnancy CAR was
negatively associated with CEBPB. Placental miR-34c-5p was positively
associated with OGT (r=0.33, p=0.03) and AOC1 (r=0.35, p=0.02). Early
pregnancy PSS was positively correlated with placental AOC1 (r=0.31,
p=0.04). There was no significant relationship between miR-192-5p and
any stress measure.
Conclusion: Placental miRNA that target stress-response pathways
previously found to be differentially expressed in Black patients correlated
with maternal experiences of ethnic discrimination and dampened CAR,
an indicator of chronic stress. These results indicate that the placenta is
highly sensitive to maternal stress, as measured by experiences of racial
discrimination. Future studies should focus on elucidating how these
pathways impact pregnancy outcomes. In particular, the relationships
between miR-34c-5p and mRNAs OGT and AOC1 suggest potential
placental target pathways of this miRNA but must be experimentally
confirmed.
O-044
Social Determinants of Health as Predictors of Increased Perinatal
Morbidity and Mortality. Jameela Media†, Nuong Truong†, Abigail
Winder, Haley Zanga†, Genevieve Iben†, Feffer Marina, Mary Murphy†,
Hannah Pope†, Jessica Shaker†, Mirelle Dawoud†, Ann Lal∗. Loyola
University, Maywood, IL, United States.
Introduction: Social determinants of health (SDoH) are important for the
health of patients. Our study assesses the impact of patients who screen
positive on the SDoH to see if this is a risk factor for increased perinatal
morbidity and mortality. The study hypothesis is patients who screen
positive for SDoH have increased perinatal morbidity and mortality.
Methods: Our tertiary center initiated SDoH screening in March 2022.
Data was collected from March 2022-February 2023. Patients who did
not deliver at our institution or did not have SDoH data were excluded.
The SDoH questionnaire assessed financial strain, food insecurity,
transportation issues, intimate partner violence and housing. Patients were
divided into those who screened positive on the SDoH items, compared
to SDoH negative group. Morbidity and mortality events were assessed
via chart review. Characteristics were compared between the 2 groups via
fisher’s exact test for categorical variables or student’s t test for continuous
variables. Univariable and multivariable logistic regression was used to
estimate the odds of patients experiencing an adverse outcome, while
controlling for SDoH group and patient demographics. All tests are
two-sided, with a threshold for significance of p<0.05. All analyses were
conducted via Stata v.18
Results: 1095 patient charts of patients were reviewed; 867 patients were
included for data analysis. 202 patients were in the SDoH positive group
and 665 patients were in the negative group. The demographics between
the groups were significantly different in maternal age, gestational age at
delivery, race, marital status and insurance status, p < 0.05. There was a
significant association in the SDoH screen positive group with increased
maternal perinatal morbidity and mortality, (22.8% in the SDoH positive
group, compared to 15.2% in the SDoH negative group), p = 0.014. There
was no association between increased neonatal morbidity and mortality
between the groups, (12.9% in positive compared to 11.3% in the negative,
p = 0.53) Among univariable logistic models, patients in the SDoH positive
group have a 65% increase in odds of a maternal morbidity and mortality
event compared to patients in the SDoH negative group. (OR: 1.65, 95%
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 63A
Thursday Orals
CI (1.11, 2.43), p = 0.012). In our multivariate analysis, while controlling
for demographic differences, while controlling for race, age, and chronic
conditions, the SDoH positive group displayed a 60% increase in the odds
of increased maternal perinatal morbidity and mortality (OR: 1.6, 95%
CI (1.1, 2.5), p = 0.016).
Conclusion: Patients who screen positive on a SDoH screen are at an
increased risk of adverse perinatal morbidity and mortality. Further studies
need to be done to assess how a targeted approach to these SDoH could
impact perinatal morbidity and mortality.
O-045
FOXL2 in the Development and Maintenance of Ovarian Cell Fate.
Robin Lovell-Badge∗. The Francis Crick Institute, London, United
Kingdom.
Introduction: The transcription factor FOXL2 is required in somatic
cells of the ovary for its normal development and for female fertility.
Differential timing of Foxl2 deletion in the embryonic versus adult adult
mouse ovary leads to distinctive outcomes, suggesting different roles
accross development. When deleted early, ovaries still form, but they
become dysgenic after about 1 week postnatally, with the appearance
of some SOX9 positive cells resembling Sertoli cells. If deleted in the
adult female mouse, or indeed any postnatal stage, follicles transform into
structures that in section resemble seminiferous tubules lacking germ cells.
Methods: We recently reported a comprehensive investigation of
FOXL2’s role through a multi-omics approach to characterize gene
expression dynamics and chromatin accessibility changes, coupled
with genome-wide identification of FOXL2 targets and on-chromatin
interacting partners accross ovary development.
Results: Our data revealed that FOXL2 regulates more targets postnatally,
through interaction with factors known to regulate primordial follicle
formation and steroidogenesis. This analysis also revealed novel
interactors of FOXL2 with a possible role in granulosa cell differentiation
and ovarian development. We demonstrated that deletion of one of these
interactors that is conserved in humans, ubiquitin-specific peptidase 7
(Usp7), resulted in the impairment of granulosa cell differentiation, germ
cell nest breakdown, and ovarian development, leading to hypogonadism
and complete sterility. We have also made some progress in carrying out
single-cell analysis of the postnatal gonadal sex reversal upon loss of
Foxl2, which reveals the cell types prone to transdifferentiation as well as
the type and extent of changes in gene expression, including upregulation
of Sox9 and other Sertoli cell factors. Work on the function of Foxl2 in
chick sex determination and gonad development will also be presented.
Conclusion: FOXL2 has critical roles in ovary development and
maintenance, but the extent and timing of its role(s) seems to vary between
species. It will be important to determine how FOXL2 acts in human ovary
development and to characterise the role of other factors with which it
interacts at fetal and postnatal stages.
O-046
Increased Natural Killer Cell Activity in the Ovary During the
Peri-Ovulatory Phase of the Ovarian Cycle. Lucy Salter†,1 Natasha
Thompson†,1 Toby Lanser,2 Elizabeth Bonney,3 Dimitry Krementsov,3
Tia Y Brodeur∗.1 1Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN, United States;
2Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA,
United States; 3University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, United States.
Introduction: Inflammation in the ovary (oophoritis) can lead to
premature menopause following mumps infection or autoimmune
pathology leading to primary ovarian insufficiency. Normal ovarian
function and fertility is dependent on leukocytes, however, how leukocyte
dysfunction in the ovary leads to oophoritis and persistent follicle injury
is poorly understood. Natural killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic lymphocytes
that are present in the ovary, promote follicular maintenance in viral
oophoritis, and NK cell activity can be modulated by estradiol. Based on
this foundational understanding, we hypothesize that the high estradiol
environment of the pre-ovulatory phase drives NK cell trafficking to
protect and maintain follicular integrity to preserve fertility in the face
of ovulatory mediated tissue damage.
Methods: C57BL/6J mice were injected with human menopausal
gonadotropins (hMG) to stimulate the ovaries to the high-estradiol state
of superovulation or saline control. Mice were sacrificed 48 hours after
hMG exposure and single-cell suspensions were made from whole ovary.
Ovary cells were analyzed by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) to
analyze the transcriptome of resident leukocytes (n=5 per group). Flow
cytometry was performed on an additional subset of ovarian tissues to
confirm the presence of NK cells (n=10 per group), using CD11b marker
to assess NK cell maturity and cytotoxicity. Finally, frozen-sectioned
ovary tissue was stained with anti-NK1.1 for localization of NK cells by
immunofluorescence. Statistical significance determined by Student’s
t test.
Results: Stimulation with hMG led to a significant increase in NK cell
percentage as well as activation as assessed by increased expression of
CD11b saline-treated controls in flow cytometry analysis (p=<0.001).
scRNAseq demonstrated an increase in NK cells in the peri-ovulatory
state, as well as decreased expression of Ccr2, Ccr5, Ccl5, and Ccl6.
Transcripts associated with cell proliferation were not increased.
Immunofluorescence demonstrated increased ovarian NK1.1+ cells
palisading ovarian follicles and corpora lutea.
Conclusion: The NK cell population increases in the ovary in response
to superovulation with gonadotropins and this may be associated
with increased cytotoxicity. Based on scRNAseq data, this is likely
related to recruitment or altered chemotaxis rather than proliferation.
Immunofluorescence demonstrates NK cells are positioned around
follicles and corpora lutea. Future studies will address potential protection
from viral oophoritis by ovarian NK cells.
O-047
Chromosomal Balance and Developmental Fate: A Tale of Monosomy
21 Facing Trisomy 21. Roberto Yagüe-Serrano†,1 Andrea Palomar†,1
Alicia Quiñonero,1 Sara Morales-Álvarez†,1 Roberto González-Martín†,1
Mireia Florensa,2 Francisco Domínguez∗,1,3 Imma Sánchez-Ribas∗,2
Amparo Mercader.4 1IVI Foundation, Valencia, Spain; 2IVI Barcelona,
Barcelona, Spain; 3Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, United States;
4IVI Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: Transcriptomic profiling of post-implantation aneuploid
embryos contributes to unravel mechanisms leading to different
developmental fates. Down Syndrome, caused by trisomy 21 (T21), is
the most known aneuploidy able to result in a live birth, in contrast to
chromosome 21 monosomy (M21), that leads to miscarriage. This study
aims to decipher how the chromosomal load affects cellular components
(CC) and if this affection can be related to developmental fates.
Methods: Human blastocysts on day 5 (D5) from PGT-A cycles (T21
n=20; M21 n=20) were included. After thawing, some blastocysts (n=10
/ group) were processed for RNA isolation, cDNA library production and
bulk RNA sequencing; whilst the rest (n=10 / group) were cultured in
vitro until post-implantation stages (day 9-10; T21 n=7, M21 n=6) before
bulk RNA sequencing. After quality control, sequence trimming and
transcript quantification by Salmon (v1.10.0), correlation and differential
expression analysis were performed. Pathways enrichment of Gene
Ontology Cellular Components database was performed using GSEA
algorithm and Cytoskape (v3.10.1), taken a False Discovery Rate (FDR)
≤ 0.1 as threshold. Validation by qPCR of top 10 dysregulated genes in
each case was performed.
Results: Half of M21 embryos arrested before day 9 (D9) while 70% of T21
embryos reached post-implantation stages, up to day 10 (D10). Compared
to M21 D5 embryos, M21 D9 embryos showed 10,303 differentially
expressed genes (DEG). In these embryos, chromosomal regions and
spliceosome-related CC were up-regulated at D9, whereas those related
to the endomembrane system, cell membrane, cell junction, cytoskeleton
and neuronal synapsis were down-regulated. When comparing M21 D9 to
M21 D10 embryos3480 DEG were identified. At this stage, the number
of altered CC decreased; chromosomal and spliceosomal complexes were
down, as well as CC related to vesicles and mitochondrial complexes. In
T21 D9 embryos compared to T21 D5 embryos 7265 DEG were reported
when. The affected CC belonged to the same organelles found in M21
D5 vs. M21 D9 comparison, with a higher number of CC per organelle,
64A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
but CC related to ribosomes were up-regulated. The increased number
of up-regulated CC related to spliceosome and ribosome in T21 embryos
may suggest greater transcriptional activity. However, all these CC were
down-regulated in T21 D10 compared to T21 D9, similar to the M21 D9
vs. M21 D10 comparison, possibly due to a lack of endometrial support.
Conclusion: Transcriptomic analysis reveals that T21 embryos exhibit
greater transcriptional activity compared to M21, possibly as an attempt
to compensate for abnormal chromosomal load, whereas M21 embryos
fail to achieve this balance.
O-048
Novel Vasodilatory Role of Piezo1-BKCaChannel Signaling in the
Uterine Vasculature. German A Arenas†, Ramon A Lorca∗. University
of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO, United States.
Introduction: Throughout gestation, the uteroplacental circulation
undergoes significant vasodilation to ensure proper blood flow from the
mother to the fetus. The large-conductance voltage- and Ca2+-activated K+
(BKCa) channel promotes vasodilation of the uterine artery (UtA) during
pregnancy. Enhanced hemodynamic forces are sensed by mechanosensory
proteins in the endothelium and vascular smooth muscle. Piezo1, a
non-selective cation channel, mediates vasodilation generated by shear
stress. The function of Piezo1 in the human uterine vasculature remains
unknown. Recently, Piezo1-dependent vasodilation has been shown to be
mediated via activation of BKCa channels. Thus, we aimed at elucidating
the role of Piezo1/BKCa signaling in the vasodilation of mouse UtA and
human myometrial arteries (MyoA) during pregnancy. We hypothesized
that Piezo1-induced vasodilation is mediated by BKCa channel activation
in mouse UtA and pregnant human MyoA.
Methods: MyoA were collected from term pregnant woman undergoing
elective cesarean delivery (N=5) after informed consent. UtA were
collected from non-pregnant (NP; N=6) mice after euthanasia. Isolated
arteries were mounted in a wire myography to assess vasodilator responses
to cumulative concentrations (1 nM - 30 μM) of Yoda1, a Piezo1 specific
activator, in the presence or absence of Dooku1 (Yoda1-induced Piezo1
activation inhibitor; 10 μM) and iberiotoxin (IbTx, BKCa channel
blocker - 100 nM). For immunofluorescence (IF), arteries were fixed in
paraformaldehyde, embedded in paraffin, sectioned (~5 μm) and mounted
on slides to localize Piezo1 and BKCa. CD31 and α-smooth muscle actin
antibodies were used to detect the endothelial and vascular smooth muscle
(VSM) layer, respectively. Data were analyzed by One-way ANOVA.
Results: In NP mice UtA, Yoda1 induced ~43% vasodilation at maximal
concentration, which tended to decrease in presence of Dooku1 (~76%;
p=0.066) and IbTx (~70%; p= 0.084). Similarly, human MyoA exhibited
~37% of vasodilation evoked by Yoda1, that tended to be inhibited by
Dooku1 (~62%) and IbTx pre-treament (90%; p=0.09). IF assays showed
Piezo1 localization in both endothelium and VSM layer, and BKCa channel
localization in VSM in mice UtA and human MyoA.
Conclusion: We described for the first time the vasodilatory role of Piezo1
activation in pregnant human MyoA. Our results in human MyoA and
mice UtA suggest that Piezo1-induced vasodilation is partially mediated
by BKCa channel activation. Future complementary studies are needed to
determine the role of Piezo1/BKCa channel in healthy and complicated
pregnancies.
O-049
The Microbiota Extends the Reproductive Lifespan by Safeguarding
the Ovarian Reserve. Sarah K Munyoki†. Magee-Womens Research
Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, United States.
Introduction: Reduction in the quantity and quality of oocytes is a
leading cause of infertility in women, yet the underlying mechanisms
governing this reproductive decline remain unclear. Emerging evidence
suggests microbiota influences fertility but the mechanistic link between
the microbiota, reproductive function, and length of the fertile lifespan
remains unexplored. We examined the hypothesis that the presence of
microbiota controls ovarian function and reproductive fitness across
the lifespan.
Methods: Follicle stages were quantified in H&E stained ovarian
tissue from adult (P70) murine-pathogen-free (MPF) and germ-free
(GF) C57Bl/6N mice (n=5). To understand the developmental origins
of the ovarian phenotype, we quantified follicle stages across critical
timepoints of ovary postnatal maturation (P7, 21, 28, 70, n=3). Bulk RNA
sequencing elucidated the molecular mechanisms underlying the observed
ovarian phenotype. Masson's trichrome staining evaluated collagen fiber
deposition. To understand how ovarian changes are associated with
the developing microbiota, we used 16S rRNA gene profiling. Liquid
chromatography-mass spectrometry-based metabolomics identified and
quantified the microbial metabolites regulating ovarian follicle dynamics.
To investigate the effect of diet-induced microbiota disruption in ovarian
function, we employed our established high-fat, low-fiber (Hf-Lf) diet
model. Superovulation and in vitro fertilization experiments assessed
the effects of our model on female fertility and embryo development.
Data were analyzed using two-tailed Student's t-tests with Tukey's test.
Results: GF ovaries displayed a 50% reduction in primordial follicles
(p<0.05) and hemorrhagic lesions, follicular atresia, fibrosis, and
inflammation compared to MPF controls. GF ovaries had altered
expression of dormancy, follicle activation, and inflammation related
genes (p<0.05) at postnatal ages that coincide with a critical developmental
transition of the gut microbiota at weaning (P28) that is absent in GF mice.
Microbial-derived short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) metabolites, particularly
butyrate, an essential regulator of cellular dormancy, were lacking in
GF ovaries. Supplementing GF mice with SCFA or SCFA-producing
microbiota before weaning rescued the GF ovarian phenotype. Hf-Lf diet
disruption of microbiota during weaning led to reduced primordial follicles
(p<0.05), oocyte retrieval, and poor embryo development. Targeted
interventions to restore microbiota improved these reproductive outcomes.
Conclusion: We reveal a novel contribution of the microbiota to ovarian
function and reproductive longevity in female mice. The absence of
microbiota leads to accelerated depletion of the ovarian reserve through
disruption of ovarian metabolic and transcriptional programs. Our study
opens new avenues to enhance female reproductive health and fertility
through targeted modulation of microbial communities.
O-050
The Presence of an Endometrioma Adversely Impacts Cortical
and Peri-Follicular Blood Flow in Ipsilateral Ovary, Potentially
Contributing to Poor Oocyte Quality. Pravin Goud,1 Olivia Camp†,2
Anuradha Goud,2 Husam Abu-Soud.2 1UC Davis, Sacramento, CA, United
States; 2Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, United States.
Introduction: Ovaries have a complex vasculature capable of undergoing
dynamic structural and functional remodeling. Alterations to the vascular
dynamics may have a profound impact on follicular physiology, oocyte
quality and corpus luteum function, particularly among women with
endometriomas, who may suffer the reproductive consequences of
increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) coupled with nitric oxide (NO)
insufficiency.
Methods: Here, we present a prospective study of ovarian cortical and
perifollicular blood flow in ovaries with or without endometriomas among
women undergoing ovarian stimulation. Women with endometriosis and
age matched women without endometriosis undergoing controlled ovarian
hyperstimulation for ART were prospectively followed to study ovarian
and peri-follicular blood flow using transvaginal ultrasound color doppler
(n=36). Qualitative analysis of doppler waveforms as well as quantitative
indices including peak systolic (PSV), end diastolic flow (EDV), resistance
index (RI) and S/D ratio were documented on stimulation days 1, 6-9
and 10-14 and during oocyte retrieval using transvaginal ultrasound (GE
Voluson P8) with standard color and pulse doppler settings.
Results: In both groups, ovarian stimulation resulted in a progressive
increase in perifollicular PSV and EDV and decrease in RI and S/D ratio
throughout stimulation, peaking on the day of oocyte retrieval. The RI and
S/D ratios were significantly higher among women with an endometrioma
in ipsilateral, but not contralateral ovary (P<0.01). Perifollicular flow
in ipsilateral ovaries containing the endometrioma was noted to have a
diastolic notch (42.9 and 0% vs 4.5%), absent diastolic flow (21.4 and
0% vs 4.5%) and reversed diastolic flow (21.4 and 0% vs 0%) compared
to contralateral versus ovaries of control subjects (P<0.01).
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 65A
Friday Orals
Conclusion: The decrease in blood flow and consequent hypoxia is a
likely key mechanism contributing to dysregulation of follicular and
oocyte physiology in women with endometriosis.
O-051
Exploring the Adverse Effect and Mechanism of Microplastic Exposure
on Human Endometrial Stromal Cell. Suhra Kim†,1 Hayan Kwon∗,1 Yun
Ji Jung∗,1 Hyewon Hur∗,1 Yeji Lee,1 JoonHo Lee∗,1 Young-Han Kim∗,1
Hee Young Cho∗,2 Ho-Keun Kwon∗,1 Jinkee Hong∗,3 Yong-Sun Maeng∗,1
Ja-Young Kwon∗.1 1Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea,
Republic of; 2Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea,
Republic of; 3Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea, Republic of.
Introduction: Microplastics (MPs) are ubiquitous in the global ecosystem,
and their health effects have become a recent scientific issue. The female
reproductive system is one of the most sensitive systems in humans;
however, comprehensive studies on the toxic effects of MPs on this system
are still lacking. This study aims to explore the impact of microplastics on
the decidualization of human endometrial stromal cells (hESCs), which
play crucial roles at the maternal-fetal interface.
Methods: MPs—including polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polypropylene,
polyethylene terephthalate, and polyethylene in micro (<25 μm) and nano
sizes (<1 μm)—were used to investigate the toxic effects and potential
mechanisms of MPs on hESCs. Morphological and functional changes
were assessed in vitro using immunofluorescence staining, electron
microscopy, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western
blotting, and microarray analysis.
Results: The results showed that exposure to PVC had significant
biological effects, inhibiting the decidualization of hESCs in vitro, both
morphologically and functionally. Electron microscopy revealed cellular
internalization of PVC. Microarray analysis exhibited that PVC-exposed
decidualized stromal cells (DSCs) showed a reduction in the expression
of protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5), a key regulator of
decidualization. Additionally, the expression of downstream signaling
molecules (TP53, FOXO1, CREB1) was decreased. The reduction in
PRMT5 expression led to NF-kB activation and a significant increase
in the expression of proinflammatory genes (IL-1β, TNF-α) (p<0.05).
Conclusion: This study demonstrated that PVC inhibits the decidualization
of hESCs and suppresses PRMT5 in DSCs. The inhibition of PRMT5
leads to NF-kB activation, which renders DSCs proinflammatory. It
is suggested that dysfunction in DSCs caused by PVC is one of the
mechanisms leading to adverse pregnancy outcomes. (Grant Number :
NRF-2022R1I1A1A01064011, and RS-2024-00342487)
O-052
Progesterone Modulates the Immune Response to Support
Preimplantation Embryonic Development in the Mouse Oviduct.
Wipawee Winuthayanon∗. University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United
States.
Introduction: More than 60% of pregnancy loss occurs during the first
trimester. As we lack a complete understanding of the environment within
the oviduct (Fallopian tube in humans) and its role in regulating early
pregnancy, it is difficult to provide diagnostic tools for oviductal origin
of early pregnancy loss.
Methods: To determine the role of progesterone (P4), we conditionally
ablated the classical P4 receptor (Pgr) in oviductal epithelial cells using
the Wnt7aCre/+;Pgrf/f (hereafter Pgrd/d) mouse model.
Results: Approximately 40% of embryos collected from Pgrd/d females
at 3.5 days post-coitus were nonviable or developmentally delayed
suggesting that epithelial PGR expression in the oviduct is required for
normal embryonic development. Single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis
showed an upregulation of genes involved in proinflammatory pathway
(i.e., interleukin 22 (IL-22) and genes in IL-22 signaling) in secretory
epithelial cells of Pgrd/d females as compared to controls. A loss of PGR
in the epithelial cells resulted in an increase immune cell recruitment into
the oviduct as compared to controls. Conversely, ovariectomized wild-type
(WT) females treated with exogenous P4 showed a reduced expression of
inflammatory response genes. Pharmacological inhibition of inflammation
using non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs significantly reduced IL-22
levels in the oviducts and rescued embryo developmental rates in Pgrd/d
females. Co-culture of WT zygotes with IL-22 significantly decreased
the number of expanded blastocysts.
Conclusion: Our findings indicate that P4 signaling through the classical
PGR in oviductal epithelial cells is required for the immunoregulatory
function and is indispensable for normal preimplantation embryonic
development. These data may contribute to an understanding of the
mechanisms underlying pre-implantation pregnancy failure, which can
inform the development of targeted diagnostic tools and therapeutic
interventions to improve reproductive outcomes.
O-053
Circadian Controlled Gene Nocturnin is a Potential Link between
Liver Steatosis in Fetuses and Offspring Exposed to the Intrauterine
Environment of Preeclampsia. Swati Dahariya†, Nevins Allyson†, Tacam
Moises†, Jon Andrew Fuson†, Simone Hernandez Ruano†, Chandrasekhar
Yallampalli†, Manu Banadakoppa∗. Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
TX, United States.
Introduction: Maternal obesity and preeclampsia (PE) are associated with
an increased risk of metabolic syndrome including liver comorbidities such
as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in offspring. The relation between PE
exposure in utero and adulthood liver diseases remains poorly understood.
Previously, in a novel placenta-specific complement activation mouse
model of PE, we showed that liver steatosis occurs in fetuses and offspring
exposed to PE. Further, prophylactic low-dose aspirin treatment did not
rescue fetuses from liver steatosis. The aim of the present study is to
identify molecular pathways associated with fetal liver steatosis and the
impact of aspirin on these pathways using global gene expression analysis.
Methods: In mice, complement cascade was activated in a placentaspecific
manner by inducing downregulation of regulator Crry using Tet-
On shRNA expression system from gestational day (GD) 10.5. Aspirin was
provided in drinking water from GD 6.5. Maternal and fetal tissues were
collected on GD17.5 at 7AM, 11AM, and 7PM. Global gene expression
in placentas (collected at 11AM) which bore male fetuses was assessed
by RNAseq (n=3/group). Nocturnin expression levels in placenta n=5-6),
fetal liver (n=4-6) and maternal liver (n=3) were further assessed by qPCR.
Results: The number of genes significantly altered was 13 and 102 in
PE and aspirin treated PE groups respectively when compared to the
control. Whereas 396 genes were altered in aspirin treated PE group when
compared to PE. Among these genes, expression of nocturnin followed a
different pattern between three groups. The qPCR analysis revealed that
in placentas and livers from control fetuses, expression of nocturnin was
significantly reduced at 7PM compared to 7AM (Equal to Zeitgeber scale
Z0, lights on and Z12, lights off respectively). In maternal liver, nocturnin
expression was increased at 7PM compared to 7AM. In placentas and
livers from PE fetuses, nocturnin expression was significantly increased
both at 7AM and 7PM compared to 7AM control group. However, in
maternal liver, nocturnin expression was significantly increased only at
7PM compared to 7AM control group. These results suggest that nocturnin
expression is dysregulated in both maternal liver and fetal liver-placental
units. Low-dose aspirin treatment had no significant impact on nocturnin
levels when compared to the PE group.
Conclusion: The expression of circadian controlled gene nocturnin was
dysregulated in maternal liver, and placenta-fetal liver units in PE group.
Prophylactic aspirin treatment had no significant impact on the expression
of nocturnin in PE group. These data suggest a potential link between
nocturnin and liver steatosis in PE exposed fetuses and offspring.
O-054
Large-Scale Maternal DNA Methylation Changes Identified Across
Pregnancy. Timothy York. VCU School of Medicine, Richmond, VA,
United States.
Introduction: Pregnancy represents a biologically significant event that
requires marked changes in metabolism, immune regulation, and hormone
signaling. Coordinating the genetic regulation of these biological pathways
most likely involves epigenetic mechanisms including DNA methylation.
Emerging evidence supports the association between DNA methylation
66A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
with gestational age at delivery in both maternal blood and fetal cord
blood samples, but little is known about how DNA methylation profiles
change across pregnancy.
Methods: Longitudinal genome-wide DNAm methylation was assessed
in 630 maternal whole blood samples at up to 4 time points per woman
during pregnancy, spanning 26 to 309 days gestation, obtained from the
Pregnancy, Race, Environment, Genes (PREG) cohort (N = 177; 50%
African American). Linear mixed-effects models were used to test within
subject change at 455,390 CpG sites.
Results: A total of 15,375 CpG sites were found to significantly change
across pregnancy at a false discovery rate of 1%. These CpG sites
comprised 3.3% of all CpGs measured and a majority of these sites
displayed increased levels of methylation across pregnancy (71.6%), were
found primarily in Open Sea areas of the genome (53.3%), and mapped
to 6,745 genic annotations. Annotated genes were primarily enriched
in immune and inflammatory response processes and GTPase regulator
activity. Of interest was the robust association with CpGs mapped to
genes associated with oxytocin-vasopressin gene pathways including a
reduction of DNA methylation across pregnancy for CpGs mapped to
oxytocin (OXT), CD38, vasopressin (AVP), and the vasopressin receptor
(AVPR2). Of note was the observed decrease in CpG methylation in the
progesterone receptor membrane component 1 gene (PGRMC1).
Conclusion: This study represents the largest longitudinal survey of
DNA methylation remodeling across pregnancy and highlights potential
epigenetic mechanisms by which the onset of labor might proceed, for
instance, by the epigenetic regulation of oxytocin receptor activation
by AVP to stimulate uterine contractions. Identifying the molecular
mechanisms responsible for establishing the pregnancy state, maintaining
pregnancy, and signaling parturition will be instrumental for predicting
poor pregnancy outcomes. These data provide a reference set for
understanding the pregnancy methylome landscape in pregnant women
throughout the gestational period.
O-055
Profiling T Cell Phenotypes Across G2 Pregnancies with Same versus
New Paternity. Janelle Santos, Erik Jessen, Bohdana Fedyshyn, Iris Lin,
Kevin Pavelko, Elizabeth Enninga∗. Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, United
States.
Introduction: The risk of several pregnancy complications is reduced
in multiparous women, which seems to be partner specific. Additionally,
female mice bred to the same versus a different strain of male mice showed
significant differences in T cell exhaustion phenotypes in subsequent
pregnancies, suggesting that repeat exposure to paternal antigens may
help promote fetal immune tolerance.
Methods: This prospective cohort study enrolled multiparous G2 pregnant
patients receiving antenatal care at Mayo Clinic. Patients had a singleton
pregnancy, known paternity, and no known pregnancy complications at
time of enrollment to be considered for inclusion. Patients were grouped
based on same versus differing paternity from G1. Blood samples were
collected at 8, 20, and 36-week time points (± 2 weeks), and peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were phenotyped via mass cytometry
using a panel containing of 36 targets to define T cell subtypes, functional
status, and co-inhibitory receptor expression.
Results: Seven participants were included in the new paternity and 8
participants in the same paternity groups. For longitudinal analyses,
we included 15 samples in the first trimester, 13 samples in the second
trimester, and 14 samples in the third trimester. We observed that G2
participants with same paternity expressed fewer CD8 naïve and more
CD8 central memory T cells in the first trimester samples compared to
new paternity. Additionally, CD4 central memory cells also increased in
same paternity pregnancies in the second trimester relative to the new
paternity cohort. Lastly, the new paternity cohort had higher levels of
CD8+ LAG-3 cells throughout pregnancy compared to same paternity,
which decreased as pregnancy progressed.
Conclusion: These results demonstrate that multiparous patients have an
accelerated activation and expansion of protective and tolerogenic T cells
in the first trimester upon re-exposure to familiar paternal antigens. Same
paternity patients overall had more activation of T cells which decreased
across pregnancy, suggesting the development of immune tolerance to fetal
antigens as pregnancy progressed. These data can begin to shed light on
the established clinical phenomenon where changes in paternity increase
the risk of complications compared to those where paternity conserved.
O-056
Fetal Growth Restriction Dysregulates Circulating Immune Cells-
Vascular Endothelial Cells Interaction and Endothelial Function.
Dilen Kadlec†, Xinran Yang†, Isabelle Taft†, Sean Limesand∗, Chi Zhou∗.
University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, United States.
Introduction: Immune cells and vascular endothelial cells (ECs)
interactions are required for the development and maturation of
fetal immune and cardiovascular systems. Dysregulation of immune
cells-vascular ECs interactions leads to inflammation and endothelial
dysfunction which cause long-term adverse effects on the immune and
cardiovascular health of the offspring. Fetal growth restriction (FGR,
~8% of all pregnancies) is associated with increased perinatal morbidity
caused in part by fetal immune and endothelial dysfunction. However,
the impact of FGR on immune cells-ECs interactions remains undefined.
We hypothesize that FGR shifts fetal circulating immune cell populations
and dysregulates immune cells-vascular ECs interaction that impairs fetal
endothelial function.
Methods: Using an established placenta insufficiency-induced FGR model
in sheep, we performed single-cell sequencing (ScSeq, 10x genomics)
with 520 and 460 peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from
control (CT) and FGR fetuses at GD133±2, respectively. Bioinformatic
analysis was performed using CellRanger and Suerat software. Celltype
annotation of the ScSeq data was performed using an unsupervised
cell-type identification computational algorithm (ScType). Further
bioinformatics and statistical analysis with multiple testing corrections
were performed to identify differentially expressed genes within each cell
type among groups. Functional genomics analysis was performed with
ingenuity pathway analysis software. Mononuclear cell adhesion and
endothelial cell monolayer integrity assays were performed with umbilical
vein endothelial cells (oUVECs) co-cultured with fetal PBMCs from CT
and FGR fetuses (n≥4/group).
Results: We obtained 1.0-1.2 million reads per cell and 8,000-9000 genes
per PBMCs sample. We observed more pre-B cells (32% vs. 14%), less
effector CD4+ T cells (8% vs. 25%), and lower CD4+ T cells to pre-B cells
ratio (0.25 vs. 1.79) in FGR PBMCs compared to control. Further, we
identified a unique cell population (erythroid precursor cells, EPCs) that
was only detected in FGR PBMCs. Compared to other PBMC populations,
FGR-elevated EPCs are enriched with genes associated with immune cells-
ECs interaction and ECs function regulating pathways including IL-33/
IL2/IL10 signaling, iNOS signaling, and Antigen Presentation Pathway.
Our cell functional data demonstrates that FGR PBMCs reduce PBMCs-
ECs monolayer adhesion and impairs oUVECs monolayer integrity
(indicative of ECs monolayer permeability) in a sex-specific manner.
Conclusion: FGR-altered PBMC populations contribute to endothelial
dysfunction in FGR fetuses. These FGR dysregulated cell type specific
genes/pathways could serve as biomarkers and therapeutic targets for
endothelial dysfunction in FGR fetuses.
O-057
Elevated Maternal Testosterone Induces Neurodevelopmental and
Behavioral Deficits in Rat Offspring. Sathish Kumar∗, Jay Mishra∗.
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, United States.
Introduction: Elevated maternal testosterone (T) levels have been linked
to an increased risk of neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism
spectrum disorder (ASD). This study investigated the effects of prenatal
testosterone exposure on brain development and behavior in a rat model.
Methods: Timed-pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with daily
subcutaneous injections of testosterone propionate (0.5 mg/kg) from
gestational day 12 to 20. This dose produced a two-fold increase in plasma
T levels, mimicking levels observed in complicated human pregnancies.
Control dams received sesame oil injections. Offspring were assessed
for various neurodevelopmental and behavioral outcomes. In neonates
(postnatal day 9), ultrasonic vocalizations, neurogenesis, myelination,
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 67A
Friday Orals
and brain docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) concentration were measured. In
adolescent offspring (6-8 weeks old), spatial working memory (Y-maze),
recognition memory (novel object recognition), and social behavior (threechamber
test) were evaluated.
Results: T-exposed dams had 2-fold higher plasma T levels and their
offspring exhibited intrauterine growth restriction, as evidenced by lower
birth weights in offspring of T-treated dams. Neonatal T-exposed offspring
of both sexes exhibited reduced ultrasonic vocalizations in response
to maternal separation, suggesting impaired early communication.
Immunofluorescence analysis of brain sections revealed sex-specific
effects: reduced neuronal density in the cerebral cortex of male offspring
and decreased myelination in the corpus callosum of female offspring.
Furthermore, both male and female T-exposed offspring showed
significantly reduced brain DHA concentrations. In adolescence,
T-exposed offspring of both sexes displayed deficits in spatial working
memory, recognition memory, and social behaviors, including reduced
preference for social interaction and social novelty.
Conclusion: Elevated maternal T exposure leads to growth restriction,
neurodevelopmental alterations, and behavioral deficits in offspring,
resembling some characteristics of ASD. The observed reduction in brain
DHA may contribute to these neurobehavioral outcomes.
O-058
Advanced Maternal Age is Associated with Increased Offspring Birth
Weight in a Nonhuman Primate Model. Mary Elaine Graham†, Nathaniel
O’Connell, Sarah Cilvik∗. Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-
Salem, NC, United States.
Introduction: Pregnancy at advanced maternal age (AMA) is increasingly
prevalent in the US, with 19% of births occurring at AMA. AMA is
associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes, however human studies
report inconsistent results, and long-term studies of fetal programming
in humans or physiologically relevant models are lacking. We propose
that AMA pregnancies are complicated by a suboptimal intrauterine
environment that negatively impacts fetal growth and programs offspring
for later disease.
Methods: We used vervets (African Green monkey, Chlorocebus
Aethiops sabaeus) housed at Wake Forest’s Vervet Research Colony to
isolate the effects of maternal age on offspring outcomes. Non-human
primates represent a valuable translational model due to their physiologic
similarities to humans. We selected 25 metabolically healthy young
adults aged 7-9 years (human equivalent 25-32 years) born to mothers at
young maternal age (YMA, 4-8 years; male offspring n=7, female n=7) or
AMA (11-16 years; male offspring n=5, female n=6). We retrospectively
evaluated the effects of AMA on offspring growth (birth weight (BW),
weight trajectory, abdominal circumference (AC), BMI), as well as
cardiovascular (blood pressure) and metabolic health (fasting glucose/
lipid panels, hemoglobin A1c). To establish trends we compared groups
using unpaired Mann-Whitney tests, with sexes analyzed separately. We
then used multivariable linear regression with age as a continuous variable
and included maternal reproductive history and metabolic health.
Results: AMA infants (n=11) overall had higher BW than YMA infants
(n=14; p=0.0084). When analyzed by sex, female AMA infants (n=6)
were heavier than female YMA infants (n=7; p=0.0355), while male
weights were similar between groups. There were no differences in other
child or adult outcomes, including AC, BMI, BP, lipid profiles, fasting
glucose, or HgbA1c in this healthy young adult cohort. On regression
analysis incorporating maternal reproductive history and metabolic
health, the association between maternal age and BW was maintained
(p=0.0046, R2=0.7223, estimate=0.0073kg). Given this, we analyzed
BW for the entire vervet colony between 2008 and 2024 (n=845) and
observed the same pattern (AMA>YMA BW, p=0.0355; F AMA>F
YMA BW, p=0.0248). Analysis of offspring growth trajectories and adult
cardiovascular health (cMRI, echocardiography and circulating reninangiotensin
signaling components) are ongoing.
Conclusion: Our preliminary findings refute the hypothesis that AMA
negatively impacts fetal growth in this nonhuman primate model.
Further studies are required to prospectively characterize the intrauterine
environment and extend our investigation to a larger population of vervet
offspring. This critical translational reproductive model shows tremendous
promise to tease out the impact of maternal age on pregnancy and longterm
offspring outcomes.
O-059
Double Deletion of the Two De Novo DNA Methyltransferases
Alleviates Maternal Diabetes-Induced Congenital Heart Defects.
Kunio Tanaka†, Reece Albert∗, Yang Peixin∗. University of Maryland,
Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Maternal diabetes induces congenital heart defects (CHDs).
However, the epigenetic mechanisms underlying CHD formation in
diabetic pregnancy is still unknown. DNA methylation is one of the
well-known epigenetic modifications in which the cytosine is methylated
to form 5-methylcytosine (5mC). DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) 3A
and 3B are the two main enzymes for de novo DNA methylation. DNA
methylation inhibits gene expression. In this study we hypothesize that
DNA hypermethylation mediates the teratogenic effects of maternal
diabetes on CHD formation.
Methods: Pregestational type I maternal diabetes in mice were induced
by the consecutive streptozotocin (STZ) injections and were mated
with nondiabetic males to generate embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5) and
E17.5 embryos for assessment of DNA methylation indices and CHD
examination, respectively. We used the Cre-Flox recommendation
approach to specifically deleting the Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b genes in the
heart. Two Cre mice, the earliest cardiac progenitor marker Nkx2.5
promoter-driven Cre, Nkx2.5-Cre and the second heart field marker Isl1
promoter-driven Cre, Isl1-Cre, were crossed with DNMT3Af/f; DNMT3Bf/f
mice to generate DNMT3Af/w; DNMT3Bf/w;Cre males, which mated with
nondiabetic and diabetic double floxed mice to generate embryos with or
without conditional deletion of Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b.
Results: Maternal diabetes increased the levels of 5mC and DNMT3A
and DNMT3B expression in the developing heart. Deleting Dnmt3a and
Dnmt3b genes using the Nkx2.5-Cre significantly reduced the rate of
embryonic CHDs from 33.8% to 0% under maternal diabetic conditions.
Deleting Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b genes using the Isl1-Cre also significantly
reduced CHD incidences in diabetic pregnancy.
Conclusion: DNA hypermethylation in the developing heart contributes
to CHD formation in diabetic pregnancy. Reducing DNA methylation by
deleting the two de novo DNA methyltransferases inhibits CHD formation
in diabetic pregnancy. Maternal diabetes-increased DNA methylation
occurs in early cardiac progenitors.
O-060
Highland Ancestry Protects Against Hypoxia-Induced Embryonic
Origins of Heart Disease. S Perelmuter†,1 C E Salinas,2 C E Blanco,3
L C Pantaleão,1 Y Niu,1 S E Ozanne,1 D A Giussani∗.1 1University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; 2Instituto Boliviano de Biología
de Altura, La Paz, Bolivia, Plurinational State of; 3Maastricht University,
Maastricht, Netherlands.
Introduction: Pregnancy complicated by chronic fetal hypoxia promotes
fetal growth restriction (FGR) and a prenatal origin of heart disease
(Circulation. 2021; 144:1429-1443). Data from humans and animals native
to high altitude show protection against the effects of hypoxia on FGR
(Pediatr Res. 2013;74:633-8). However, the effects of high altitude or
highland ancestry on prenatal origins of heart disease are unknown. Here,
we tested the hypothesis that highland ancestry protects against prenatal
origins of heart disease at a molecular level by combining the chicken
embryo model with incubations at high altitude in Bolivia.
Methods: The study was performed in the cities of La Paz (4,000m) and
Santa Cruz (sea level) with 5 incubation groups: Fertilized eggs from
hens native to sea level incubated either at sea level (SLSL, n=9) or high
altitude (SLHA, n=9), eggs from hens native to high altitude incubated at
sea level (HASL, n=9) or high altitude (HAHA, n=9), and eggs from hens
native to sea level incubated at high altitude with oxygen supplementation
(SLHA+O2, n=10). All eggs were incubated at 38C and 60% humidity
using the same incubators at sea level or high altitude. On day 19 (term
68A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
is 21 days), the chicken embryo was euthanized and weighed. Hearts
were frozen for RT-qPCR. Group data were compared by ANOVA and
correlations by the Pearson’s coefficient.
Results: Relative to SLSL hearts, SLHA hearts showed an increase in
the mRNA expression of HIF1α (0.3+0.2 vs. 1.7+0.4 expression relative
to housekeeping genes), indices of oxidative stress (NOX1 1.2+0.4 vs.
3.9+0.5; XDH, 0.7+0.3 vs. 1.8+0.3, CYP3A5, 0.1+0.1 vs. 1.6+0.1),
activation of stress-activated kinase cascades (ERK1, 0.05+0.01 vs.
0.11+0.01; SAPK/JNK, 0.08+0.02 vs. 0.17+0.06), activation of the
unfolded protein response (UPR) at the cytosolic (HSP27, 0.1+0.1
vs. 0.5+0.1), endoplasmic reticulum (PDI, 0.1+0.1 vs. 0.3+0.1), and
mitochondrial (TID1, 0.8+0.2 vs. 1.7+0.2) levels, and increased
inflammation (NFkB, 0.1+0.03 vs. 0.5+0.11;IL6, 0.51+0.19 vs.1.75+0.36,
all P<0.01). These effects were abolished in SLHA+O2 embryo hearts,
confirming effects of high-altitude hypoxia rather than hypobaria. All
effects were also reverted to SLSL levels in HASL and were markedly
attenuated in HAHA embryo hearts. The expression of HIF1α, markers of
oxidative and inflammatory stress and activation of the UPRcyt, UPRer and
UPRmt were negatively correlated with embryo body weight (all P<0.001).
Conclusion: High altitude increases embryonic cardiac stress and
inflammation, and this is attenuated in hearts of embryos with highland
ancestry. Offspring from high altitude pregnancy may be born with
an increased cardiac risk and those from Andean families may show
protection against this.
Support: British Heart Foundation
O-061
L1 Retrotransposon Activity Regulates Animal Behavior After
Maternal Immune Activation. Bailey Spiegelberg†,1,2 Anindita Sarkar,3
Iryna Gallina,3 Ethan Tietze,2,3 Colleen Heller,3 Sarah Parylak,3 Meiyan
Wang,3 Arianna Mei,3 Eunice Meija,3 Apua Paquola,2,1,3 Fred Gage,3 Jennifer
Erwin∗.1,2,3 1Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, United States;
2Lieber Institute for Brain Development, Baltimore, MD, United States;
3Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA, United States.
Introduction: Endogenously encoded Long Interspersed Element-1 (L1)
is a mobile element that causes somatic mosaicism in the human brain. We
hypothesize that environmental insults cause aberrant L1 activity which
contributes to neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), but the functional
consequences of L1 activation are elusive. We propose that maternal
immune activation (MIA)-driven L1 activity increases offspring risk for
NDDs and that attenuating L1 activity during MIA reduces risk for the
developing fetus.
Methods: To determine if MIA activates L1 in the fetal brain, pregnant
mice were injected with polyIC at E9.5 ± E8.5-10.5 lamivudine (3TC),
a reverse transcriptase inhibitor. E14.5 brains were collected to test for
L1 transcription. 10-week-old MIA mice were subjected to prepulse
inhibition (PPI) to determine whether L1 activity affects sensorimotor
gating. To identify how MIA drives L1 activation, ELISA was performed
on maternal blood (IL-6, IL1-b, TNFa, IFNy). We developed an in
vitro assay to examine the impact of IL6 on the L1 promoter in mouse
neural progenitor cells (mNPCs). To establish the mechanistic role of L1
activation in sensorimotor gating, we treated mNPCs with IL6 ± 3TC
and stained for γ-H2AX, TREX1, and single-stranded DNA (ssDNA).
Striatum size was assessed in P0 MIA offspring.
Results: MIA activates L1 in the fetal brain and 3TC rescues this
phenotype. PPI is lowered in MIA offspring (p =0.01), while 3TC-treated
mice displayed phenotypic rescue (p=0.01). IL6 was found to be the
driving cytokine (p=0.004), activating L1 and increasing expression of
the L1 protein ORF1p (p=0.004). 3TC did not affect maternal circulating
IL6 levels which suggests that 3TC inhibits L1 activity in the fetus alone.
IL6-treated mNPCs had increased levels of γ-H2AX (p=0.009) and ssDNA
(p=0.0003), and lower levels of TREX1 (p=0.04). mNPCs treated with
IL6 + 3TC were rescued from these phenotypes. MIA offspring had a
smaller striatum and increased cell death, which were rescued with 3TC.
Conclusion: MIA drives L1 activation in the developing fetal brain
through IL6, which leads to deficits in sensorimotor gating. L1 activation
results in DNA damage, accumulation of ssDNA, and cell death resulting
in a smaller striatum which contributes to the behavioral phenotype.
3TC rescued all phenotypes by attenuating L1 activity. This suggests
that targeting L1 activity with reverse transcriptase inhibitors may be
a therapeutic avenue to prevent neurodevelopmental consequences of
prenatal infections.
O-062
Human Pregnancy on a Chip: New Approach Methods to Advance
Research in Reproductive Science. Ramkumar Menon,1 Ananth
Kammala,1 Meredith Kelleher,2 Elizabeth Bonney,3 Moumita Chakraborty,1
Lauren Richardson.1 1UTMB, Galveston, TX, United States; 2OHSU,
Portland, OR, United States; 3UVM, Burlington, VT, United States.
Introduction: Maintenance of human pregnancy and initiation of
parturition requires complex coordination of cells among the Fetal
(placenta and fetal membranes)-Maternal (cervix, decidua, and
myometrium) organs (F-M). Unfortunately, in ~12% of pregnancies, this
highly orchestrated process is disrupted, causing adverse outcomes. To
address the knowledge and technology gaps arising from the limitations
of current research models to reduce adverse outcomes, a new approach
method (NAM) is developed using a microphysiologic platform.
Methods: The interconnected POC model represents 5 different
pregnancy-related intrauterine organ systems, and intrauterine cavity
containing amniotic fluid and the fetal brain. A planar co-culture design
utilized 14 cell culture chambers connected by microfluidic channels to
allow cell-cell communication and cell migration. Cells used in POC were
from human pregnancies, isolated and characterized: Vagina-Cervix (4 cell
types), myometrium (1 cell), decidual-placental interface (4 cell types),
fetal membrane-decidual interface (3 cell types), amniotic fluid (1 cell
type), and the representation of the fetus (2 cell type)—fetal brain cells.
POC also contained vaginal microbiome components and uterine immune
cells (NK cells, Neutrophils, and Macrophages). Spatial transcriptomics,
proteomics, and advanced microscopy characterized human pregnancy in
vitro, and these data were compared to RNAseq and proteomics data from
human and non-human primate pregnancy-derived tissues.
Results: POC mimicked the maternal and fetal cellular and collagen
components of the 2nd trimester of human pregnancy. Advanced
microfluidics allowed easy experimental control over all the interconnected
POC sub-systems. Cell morphology, endocrine (progesterone, prolactin,
growth factors) and immune cell profiles (cytokines, immune cell
tracking), viability, and biochemical profiling were as expected during
normal pregnancy. POC data validation using human and non-human
primate pregnancy tissues showed over 85% similarities at the RNA and
protein levels to both species at each organ level.
Conclusion: We have developed a humanized pregnancy model to study
all the intrauterine organs as a single unit as seen in utero. The “Pregnancy-
On-a-Chip” (POC) replicates the multi-organ F-M intrauterine systems in
its entirety for modeling pregnancy, parturition, and preterm birth. This
system overcomes the limitations of studying each organ or cell in silos.
POC mimics NHP and human pregnancy-derived data, suggesting that
POC can reduce the use of animal models in the future.
O-063
Branched-Chain Amino Acid Catabolism and TCA Cycle Progression
is Lower in Growth Restricted Fetal Sheep Skeletal Muscle. Eileen
I. Chang, Danika L. Ghiselli, Collin S. Painter, Michael L. Armstrong,
Peter R. Baker II, Nichole A. Reisdorph, Laura D. Brown. University of
Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, United States.
Introduction: In fetal growth restriction (FGR), there is a redistribution
of blood flow to vital organs at the expense of skeletal muscle growth.
Skeletal muscle is a major site for branched-chain amino acid (BCAA;
Leu, Ile, Val) catabolism. We hypothesized that BCAA catabolism is
increased in the FGR fetus at the expense of muscle protein synthesis
(MPS) compared to normally-growing control (CON) fetuses.
Methods: Pregnant ewes were exposed to elevated temperature to induce
placental insufficiency and FGR (n=17; CON=13). At 0.9 gestation, blood
gases were measured from catheterized fetuses and biceps femoris (BF)
muscle was harvested. Muscle fibers from BF were incubated in U-13C
Leu (0.8 mM, 1.6 mM, 8 mM), for 2 hrs to determine the fractional
incorporation of Leu into TCA metabolites (catabolism) and intact
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 69A
Friday Orals
protein (MPS). Genes and proteins involved in BCAA catabolism and
TCA cycle progression were measured from BF. Repeated measures twoway
ANOVA and Tukey’s post-hoc test was used to analyze metabolite
enrichments to determine effects of group, concentration, and interaction.
Unpaired t-tests or Mann-Whitney test were used to compare CON vs.
FGR.
Results: Fetal weight was 35% less and hindlimb skeletal muscle weight
was 42% less in FGR vs. CON (P<0.005). FGR fetuses had ~20% lower
PaO2 and O2 content than CON and a compensatory 15% increase in
hemoglobin (P<0.05). Fractional contribution of Leu to α-ketoisocaproate
(KIC) was higher in FGR vs. CON (P=0.0219, group). However,
downstream of BCAA transamination, the fractional contribution of Leu to
acetoacetate (P=0.0583, group), and the TCA cycle intermediates (citrate/
isocitrate, P=0.0346 and α-ketoglutarate, P=0.0456, group; succinate,
P=0.0200, interaction) was lower in FGR vs. CON. Fractional contribution
of leucine to intact protein was lower in FGR vs. CON (P=0.0489, group).
Genes involved in BCAA catabolism (BCAT2, BCKDHA, BCKDHB,
BCKDK, PPARG) had 15-33% lower expression levels in FGR vs. CON
(P<0.05). Downstream in the BCAA catabolism pathway, expression
levels of HPD, IVD, and HMGCL were 22-45% lower in FGR vs. CON
(P<0.01). Expression levels of TCA cycle enzymes SDHA and OGDH
were 24% and 33% lower, respectively, in FGR (P<0.05). Protein
expression of BCAT2 was lower (P<0.05) and phospho-BCKDH tended
to be lower (P=0.0965) in FGR vs. CON.
Conclusion: FGR muscle uses less Leu for MPS and less Leu enters
the TCA cycle compared to CON fetuses. Expression levels of enzymes
and transcription factors that regulate BCAA catabolism and TCA
cycle progression were lower in FGR muscle vs. CON. These results
indicate downregulation of BCAA utilization for both catabolic and
protein synthesis pathways in FGR muscle, potentially as energy sparing
adaptations. We speculate that BCAA are used for other purposes to
promote fetal survival during FGR pregnancies.
O-064
Glucocorticoids Modify Drug Transporter Activity in Human Fetal
Brain Endothelial Cells. Nikola Ivanovski†,1,2 Phetcharawan Lye,1,2
Enrrico Bloise,3 Stephen G. Matthews∗.1,2,2 1Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research
Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada; 2University of Toronto, Toronto, ON,
Canada; 3Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Introduction: The human fetal brain undergoes rapid development
during gestation, with ~99% of neurons in the adult brain having been
formed by the time of birth. The fetal blood-brain barrier (BBB) protects
the developing brain from neurotoxins and xenobiotics, including
pharmaceutical drugs. This is accomplished in part by drug transporters
at the luminal surface of brain endothelial cells (BECs). P-glycoprotein
(P-gp; encoded by ABCB1) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP;
ABCG2) are the two most prominent drug transporters present at the
fetal BBB. Synthetic glucocorticoid (sGC) is clinically administered in
cases of preterm labour (~10% of pregnancies worldwide). Our group has
previously shown that sGC exposure can alter drug transporter activity in
an animal model of the fetal BBB. To date there has been no investigation
of the effects of glucocorticoids on drug transporter function at the human
fetal BBB. We hypothesise that exposure to sGC modulates the activity
of P-gp and BCRP in human fetal BECs.
Methods: Primary human fetal BECs (hfBECs), isolated at mid-gestation
(17 to 18.5 weeks; N=6) (REB 18-0057-E), were treated with the sGC
dexamethasone (DEX) at 10-9M-10-7M or with vehicle (VEH) as a control.
Transporter activity was assessed after 4h, 24h, and 48h using P-gp- and
BCRP-specific fluorescent substrates Calcein-AM and Ce6, respectively.
Results: P-gp activity in hfBECs was increased by 10-9M (67%, P<0.02)
and 10-8M (30%, P<0.02) DEX compared to VEH after 24h, and by 10-9M
(40%, P<0.01) DEX after 48h. In contrast, a higher dose of DEX (10-7M)
decreased P-gp activity (23%, P<0.03) after 48h. BCRP activity was also
increased by 10-8M (31%, P<0.04) DEX after 24h compared to VEH.
Conclusion: This is the first study to investigate the effects of sGC on P-gp
and BCRP function in an in-vitro model of the human fetal BBB. P-gp
and BCRP activity are affected in a dose-dependent and time-dependent
manner, and these effects are transporter-specific. These effects of sGC
may have immediate and long-term implications for neurodevelopment,
as P-gp and BCRP regulate the transfer of many pharmaceutical drugs
administered during pregnancy as well as to premature infants in the
neonatal intensive care unit. We conclude that sGC exposure has important
consequences for neuroprotection at the developing human BBB.
O-065
Preeclamptic and Normotensive iPSC-Derived Endothelial Cells Have
Distinct Responses to Maternal Circulating Factors. Xi D Plummer†,
Yanming Wu, Purnima Iyer, Pedro Medina, Nazish Sayed, Virginia D
Winn∗. Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, United States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is a human pregnancy-specific disorder
that is responsible for over 70,000 maternal deaths and over 500,000 fetal
deaths worldwide yearly. Evidence has shown that maternal endothelial
dysfunction contributes to the clinical phenotype of PE; however, the
ability to study endothelial dysfunction has been hampered by limited
access to primary tissues. Recently, we established a novel patient-specific
induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived endothelial cell (EC) model
(Wu, Repro. Sci. 2024) that allows for mechanistic studies. Here we sought
to discern whether there exist cell intrinsic differences between PE and
normotensive (NT) iPSC-ECs reflecting underlying maternal susceptibility
and how maternal circulating factors modulate their responses.
Methods: Under IRB approval, iPSCs generated from two patients with
histories of PE pregnancies and two patients with histories of only NT
pregnancies were differentiated into ECs (PE-ECs and NT-ECs). ECs
were exposed to 5% pooled sera from PE patients (n = 26), NT patients
(n = 24) or NT postpartum non-pregnant patients (n = 22) for 24 hours.
Experiments were performed twice in triplicate. We performed tube
formation and migration assays to assess EC function. Additionally, EC
permeability was assessed using a Fluorescein-Streptavidin imaging
assay (intercellular) and a conjugated FITC-Dextran assay (inter- and
intracellular). LPS was utilized as a positive control. Statistical analyses
were performed using two-way ANOVA with Tukey or Fisher’s post-doc
tests with significance p < 0.05.
Results: When exposed to NT sera, PE-ECs showed impaired tube
formation (p < 0.0001) and migration (p < 0.0001) as compared with
NT-ECs. Interestingly, when exposed to PE sera, PE-ECs demonstrated
improved tube formation (p = 0.0318) and migration (p < 0.0001)
compared with NT sera exposure. On permeability imaging and FITCDextran
assays, PE-ECs have increased permeability (p = 0.0083 and p
= 0.0040) compared with NT-ECs when cultured with NT sera. When
cultured with PE sera as compared with NT sera, NT-ECs demonstrated
increased permeability on both imaging and FITC-Dextran assays (p
< 0.0001 and p = 0.0246); however, PE-ECs did not show any further
increased permeability.
Conclusion: When exposed to NT sera, iPSC-ECs from PE patients
demonstrate EC dysfunction and increased permeability as compared with
iPSC-ECs from NT patients. Unexpectedly, exposure to PE sera improved
PE-EC endothelial function and did not worsen their permeability, a
distinct response from that of NT-EC exposure to PE sera. These results
suggest that preeclampsia pathogenesis involves a complex interplay
between intrinsic maternal endothelial cellular phenotype and the
composition of maternal circulating factors. Taken together, these findings
may give insight into the biological underpinnings of PE heterogeneity.
O-066
PFAS Exposure Impairs Vascular Function in Placental Chorionic
Plate Arteries and Increases Preeclampsia Risk. Pankaj Yadav†, Alissa
Hoffman†, Ruolin Song†, Jay Mishra∗, Sathish Kumar∗. University of
Wisconsin, Madison, WI, United States.
Introduction: Pregnancy induces adaptive vascular changes, including
enhanced vasodilation, decreased blood pressure, and increased uterine
artery blood flow. In contrast, preeclampsia is a serious pregnancy
complication characterized by hypertension and vascular dysfunction. The
causes of preeclampsia are unclear. However, epidemiological studies have
consistently shown elevated plasma levels of perfluoroalkyl substances
(PFAS), a large family of over 5,000 persistent environmental pollutants,
in pregnant women with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.
70A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Objective: This study aimed to identify the predominant PFAS associated
with preeclampsia and investigate whether this specific PFAS impairs
gestational vascular function by altering vasoconstriction and vasodilation
in human placental chorionic plate arteries.
Methods: A case-control study was conducted with 40 women with
preeclampsia and 40 normotensive controls. Maternal serum samples were
analyzed for 38 different PFAS compounds using liquid chromatographytandem
mass spectrometry. Angiogenic biomarkers (sFLT1 and PLGF)
were also measured. Vascular reactivity of isolated human chorionic plate
arteries was assessed after PFAS exposure, and the protective effects of
mitoquinone (MitoQ) were evaluated.
Results: Significantly higher concentrations of perfluorooctane sulfonate
(PFOS) and perfluoroheptane sulfonic acid (PFHPS) were found in
maternal serum samples from women with preeclampsia compared to
controls. Each log-scale interquartile range (IQR) increase in PFOS and
PFHPS concentrations was associated with a 7.18-fold (95% CI: 2.24,
23.0) and 5.40-fold (95% CI: 1.81, 16.1) higher odds of preeclampsia,
respectively. PFOS and PFHPS were positively associated with sFLT1
levels and the sFLT1/PLGF ratio.
Exposure to PFOS (10 μM, the predominant PFAS identified) enhanced
contractile responses to K+ depolarization and ET-1 in isolated chorionic
plate arteries. Relaxation responses to isoproterenol and forskolin were
significantly reduced, while responses to SNP remained unaffected.
PFOS exposure significantly reduced intracellular ATP and cAMP levels,
while cGMP levels were unchanged. MitoQ pretreatment restored ATP
and cAMP levels and rescued the impaired vascular reactivity in PFOSexposed
vessels.
Conclusion: There is a strong association between PFAS exposure,
particularly PFOS and PFHPS, and an increased risk of preeclampsia.
PFOS directly impairs vascular function by exacerbating vasoconstriction
and attenuating cAMP-mediated vasodilation, likely through the reduction
of intracellular cAMP levels, providing a molecular mechanism linking
maternal PFOS exposure to preeclampsia.
O-067
Mitochondrial Fission is Involved in Rat Uterine Artery Constriction.
Desirae Escalera†, Nataliia Hula†, Styliani Goulopoulou∗. Loma Linda
University, Loma Linda, CA, United States.
Introduction: Mitochondrial fission is the splitting of a mitochondrion
for replication and removal of damaged mitochondrial material. Recent
studies have identified the involvement of fission in vascular smooth
muscle (VSMC) reactivity and phenotype changes. Increased fission is
associated with a shift from contractile to a synthetic VSMC phenotype,
inducing a proliferative and migratory state. Fission inhibition suppresses
contractile responses in rat non-reproductive vascular beds; however, the
role of fission in uterine artery (UtA) reactivity remains unknown. We
hypothesized that mitochondrial fission is involved in VSMC contractile
responses in rat UtA.
Methods: Contractile and dilatory responses were assessed in UtA from
non-pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats using wire myography. The role of
mitochondrial fission in UtA reactivity was tested using a mitochondrial
fission inhibitor (MDIVI, selective inhibitor of dynamin-related protein
1 (DRP1) at various concentrations (5 - 50 μM vs. vehicle, DMSO)
following preconstriction with phenylephrine (PE, 10-6 M;) or potassium
chloride (KCl, 60 mM). To test whether the inhibition of DRP1 would
suppress UtA VSMC contractile and vasodilatory responses, we performed
cumulative concentration-response curves to PE (receptor dependent
VSMC constriction), KCl (receptor independent VSMC constriction) or
acetylcholine (ACh, endothelium-dependent relaxation) before and after
incubation with MDIVI (10 μM, 30 min). Independent t-test or one-way
ANOVA were used to assess treatment effects.
Results: MDIVI induced concentration-dependent relaxation in
endothelium-intact UtA preconstricted with PE (p<0.01 vs. vehicle) or
KCl (p<0.01 vs. vehicle). Incubation with MDIVI reduced maximum
responses to PE (%KClmax, Control (n=5): 131.4±5.65 vs. MDVI, (n=5):
106.7±2.37, p=0.0023) and KCl (%KClmax, Control (n=2): 79.22±8.99
vs. MDIVI (n=2): 32.54±10.66, p=0.02) and did not affect ACh-induced
relaxation (p>0.05).
Conclusion: Inhibition of mitochondrial fission suppresses receptor
dependent and independent VSMC contractile pathways in UtA from nonpregnant
rats. These studies are the first step to the assessment of the role
of mitochondrial dynamics in UtA reactivity and adaptations to pregnancy.
O-068
Improvement in Heart Function in Preeclamptic Rats After Treatment
with a G Protein-Coupled Estrogen Receptor Agonist. Allan KN
Alencar†,1 Kenneth F Swan,1 Mistina M Manoharan,1 Sarah H Lindsey,1
Gabriella C Pridjian,1 Michael R Garrett,2 Carolyn L Bayer.1 1Tulane
University, New Orleans, LA, United States; 2University of Mississippi
Medical Center, Jackson, MS, United States.
Introduction: The development of novel therapeutic interventions for
preeclampsia remains an urgent unmet clinical need, given the complex
pathophysiology and substantial maternal-fetal morbidity and mortality
associated with this disorder. The G protein-coupled estrogen receptor
(GPER) has cardioprotective effects in preclinical models of menopause;
here, we hypothesized that GPER would also have cardioprotective effects
during preeclampsia. Using the Dahl salt-sensitive rat model (SS/Jr from
UMMC), which develops preeclampsia-like symptoms during pregnancy,
we demonstrated that oral GPER agonist treatment significantly improved
cardiac function.
Methods: Preeclamptic Dahl S rats were randomly assigned to two
groups: one group received the GPER agonist LNS8801 (800 μg/kg/
day) administered orally, while the control group received the vehicle.
Treatments were administered from gestational day (GD) 9 to GD20.
Cardiac function was evaluated using echocardiography at GD19, using
speckle-tracking and pulsed wave Doppler assessments of systolic,
diastolic, and structural parameters. Differences between the two
experimental groups (Dahl S + Vehicle and Dahl S + LNS8801) were
compared using an unpaired two-tailed t-test. A p-value < 0.05 was
considered statistically significant.
Results: LNS8801 significantly improved cardiac function, as evidenced
by enhanced global longitudinal (-21.85 ± 1.20%, Dahl S + LNS8801; -11.1
± 1.52%, Dahl S + Vehicle), circumferential, and radial strain measured
via speckle-tracking echocardiography. These strain improvements were
accompanied by increased systolic function. Diastolic function also
significantly improved following LNS8801 treatment, reflected in greater
left ventricular compliance, increased early mitral annular velocity, and
reduced left ventricular filling (1.61 ± 0.10, Dahl S + LNS8801; 1.03 ±
0.11, Dahl S + vehicle. Additionally, LNS8801 significantly reduced mean
arterial pressure and proteinuria compared to controls.
Conclusion: LNS8801, via selective GPER activation, enhances
myocardial synchrony and improves both systolic and diastolic
cardiac function while reducing hypertension and renal impairment in
preeclamptic Dahl salt-sensitive rats. These results indicate that GPER
activation presents a promising therapeutic approach for addressing the
cardiovascular complications associated with superimposed preeclampsia.
O-069
Low-Dose Aspirin Improves Uterine Artery Function in a Rat
Model of Excessive Hypercholesterolemia in Pregnancy. Amanda A.
de Oliveira†, Floor Spaans, Murilo E. Graton†, Raven Kirschenman,
Christy-Lynn M. Cooke∗, Sandra T. Davidge∗. University of Alberta,
Edmonton, AB, Canada.
Introduction: Excessive hypercholesterolemia (HC) in pregnancy
predisposes the mother to preeclampsia (PE, termed HC-PE), but the
mechanisms are not fully understood. We recently showed that uterine
artery endothelial function is impaired in HC-PE pregnancies via
activation of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) with prostaglandin H synthase
1 (PGHS1), but not PGHS2, as a key downstream mechanism. Low-dose
Aspirin reduces the risk of PE in high-risk pregnant women, and the
mechanism of action involves targeting PGHS1. However, if low-dose
Aspirin can improve uterine artery endothelial function in HC-PE is not
known. We hypothesized that low-dose Aspirin suppresses the vascular
TLR4/PGHS1 pathway, which in turn, improves uterine artery endothelial
function in HC-PE.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 71A
Friday Orals
Methods: Sprague Dawley rats were fed a control (CD) or a high
cholesterol (HC-PE) diet from gestational day (GD)6 to 20, and were
treated with placebo or low-dose Aspirin from GD10 to 20 (n=7/group).
On GD20, uterine artery blood flow velocity was assessed by ultrasound
biomicroscopy, and pregnancy outcomes were recorded. Uterine arteries
were isolated and endothelium-dependent vasodilation to methacholine
(MCh) was evaluated ex vivo using wire myography with and without
CLI095 (TLR4 inhibitor) and meclofenamate (pan-PGHS inhibitor). All
data are reported as means±SEM and were analyzed with a two-way
ANOVA with Sidak’s post-hoc test (significance: p<0.05).
Results: Fetal weight was similar between the CD and HC-PE groups,
regardless of the treatment. However, placental weight increased in the
HC-PE placebo dams compared to CD (CD 0.45±0.008g vs HC-PE
0.52±0.019g, p=0.002; suggesting reduced placental efficiency), and was
improved by low-dose Aspirin (0.46±0.009g, p=0.002). In the uterine
arteries, the velocity of blood flow increased in the HC-PE placebo group
compared to CD (velocity time integral; CD 64.3±1.2 vs HC-PE 96.8±9.4,
p=0.030), which was prevented by low-dose Aspirin (57.7±6.1, p=0.006).
Vasodilation to MCh was reduced in the uterine arteries of the HC-PE
placebo group compared to CD (CD 92.4±3.8% vs HC-PE 32.2±6.3%,
p<0.001), which was prevented by inhibition of TLR4 (79±4.6%,
p<0.001) or PGHS (89.4±4.9%, p<0.001). Low-dose Aspirin normalized
vasodilation to MCh in HC-PE dams (81.5±7%, p<0.001).
Conclusion: Low-dose Aspirin improved placental efficiency and reduced
uterine artery blood flow velocity in HC-PE dams, which may indicate
that low-dose Aspirin enhanced the capacity of the HC-PE uteroplacental
vasculature to accommodate the increase in incoming blood flow. Indeed,
uterine artery endothelial function was improved by low-dose Aspirin,
likely by suppressing the TLR4/PGHS1 pathway. Our findings suggest
that there may be a yet unidentified subpopulation of women with
excessive HC that develops during pregnancy who may also benefit from
low-dose Aspirin.
O-070
A Novel Role for Soluble FMS-Like Tyrosine Kinase-1 to Upregulate
Trophoblast Leptin Production and Induce Vascular Endothelial
Dysfunction in Preeclampsia. Mona Elgazzaz†, Safia Ogbi, Gibson
Cooper, Kristin Backer, Padmashree Chaudhury Woodham, James Maher,
Jessica Faulkner∗. Augusta University, Augusta, GA, United States.
Introduction: Elevated serum level of soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase
1 (sFlt-1) is characteristic of preeclampsia (PE) and associated with
severe outcomes. Leptin, a hormone that promotes vascular endothelial
dysfunction, is also elevated in PE patient cohorts, however, the stimulus
is unknown. We previously showed that leptin infusion in pregnant
mice from mid-to-late gestation elicits features of PE: hypertension,
endothelial dysfunction, and fetal growth restriction. We hypothesize that
sFlt-1 induces endothelial dysfunction via inducing leptin production in
pregnant mice.
Methods: BALB/c female mice bred in timed pregnancy (12 wk) were
implanted with subcutaneous minipumps containing sFlt-1 (1.2 μg/
day, n=5) or saline (n=6) on gestational day (GD)11. At GD17, uterine
artery resistance index (UARI) was measured via Doppler ultrasound.
Vascular reactivity was assessed in 2nd-order mesenteric arteries using
wire myography at GD18. Plasma and adipose tissue were collected to
measure leptin protein level and gene expression (PCR). In addition, we
obtained human placenta explants from normal pregnant and PE deliveries
at WellStar MCG Health in Augusta, GA and treated them with sFlt-1(1
ng/ml, 72 h) or vehicle and collected the media to measure leptin secretion.
Results: sFlt-1 increased UARI compared to sham ([PSV-EDV]/PSV;
Mean±SEM;0.61±0.01vs.0.45±0.01, t test, p=0.0007). sFlt-1 reduced
relaxation to acetylcholine (concentration-response, 1nM-10μM, 2-way
ANOVA w/RM, p<0.0001) and to sodium nitroprusside (p<0.05),
indicating both vascular endothelial and smooth muscle dysfunction,
respectively. At GD18, we observed sFlt-1 increased plasma levels of
leptin (6.4±1.2vs.2.7±1.3 ng/mL, One Way ANOVA, p<0.01) and adipose
leptin gene expression compared to baseline (Fold change (FC): 4.06±1.5
vs.1.2±0.2, One Way ANOVA, p=0.006) of pregnant mice. Similarly, sFlt-1
increased leptin media concentration in placental explants of both normal
pregnant (FC to control 4.06, t test, p=0.02) and PE patients (FC to control:
4.9 t test, p=0.01). Interestingly, adding VEGF or PlGF to sFlt-1 abolished
the sFlt-1 induced upregulation of leptin in normal placentas. (media leptin
secretion sFlt-1+VEGF vs. sFlt-1: 1.1±0.9 vs.1.5±0.1; sFlt-1+PLGF vs.
sFlt-1: 1.0±0.9 vs.1.5±0.1 pg/μg, One Way ANOVA, p<0.0001)
Conclusion: Our data show that sFlt-1 induces endothelial dysfunction
in mice. Also, we show that sFlt-1 induces leptin production in mice and
human placentas dependent on VEGF receptor signaling. These results
suggest leptin as a novel candidate pathway through which sFlt-1 mediates
its adverse effects in PE including vascular endothelial dysfunction.
O-071
Pharmacogenomics of the Etonogestrel Contraceptive Implant:
A Genome Wide Association Study of Reported Bleeding and
Spotting Days. Aaron Lazorwitz,1 Christina L Aquilante,2 Jonathan A
Shortt,2 Christopher R Gignoux,2 Stephanie Teal,3 Jeanelle Sheeder.2
1Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United States;
2University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO, United
States; 3University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center and Case Western
Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, United States.
Introduction: Users of the same hormonal contraceptive method
experience wide interindividual variability in bleeding patterns, and we
have a paucity of data to explain what factors influence these differences
in bleeding patterns. As genetics can play a major role in differential
side effects from drugs, this study aimed to identify novel genetic loci
associated with 90-day bleeding patterns among contraceptive implant
users.
Methods: We enrolled healthy, reproductive-age (18-45 years) females
using etonogestrel implants for 12-48 months. Participants were asked
to quantify the number of bleeding or spotting days for the 3-month
period prior to enrollment. We genotyped participants using the Illumina
Infinium Global Diversity Array with Enhanced PGx coverage and
imputed genotypes using the TOPMed imputation server. We performed
a genome-wide association study using a mixed linear model-based
association analysis to identify genetic variants associated with number
of bleeding/spotting days.
Results: Among 743 etonogestrel implant users, the median age was
22.2 years (range 18.0-41.5) and median body-mass index (BMI)
was 26.1kg/m2 (range 18.5-52.0). Participants reported a median of
10 bleeding/spotting days (range 0-90) for the most recent 3-month
time period, with 17.8% (132/743) reporting “0” bleeding/spotting
days. Including the covariates of age, BMI, and the top three principal
components in the analysis, we identified 33 genetic variants with minor
allele frequencies ≥1% associated with number of bleeding/spotting days
meeting the threshold for genome-wide significance (p<5.0x10-8). Most
of these genetic variants (29/33) were found in a single genetic region
in chromosome 7 (BPs 19151201-19174354) and were associated with
increased number of bleeding/spotting days (β= 23.84, p=1.0x10-9).
Conclusion: Contraceptive implant users experience wide interindividual
variability in bleeding patterns. Implant users with genetic variants found
in a specific locus of chromosome 7 had 23.8 more bleeding/spotting days
within a 90-day period compared to individuals with major alleles at this
locus. Though this genetic locus falls in a non-coding region, it may affect
regulation or transcription of other coding regions. Future research on this
genetic locus could lead to clinically useful counseling tools for predicting
individual bleeding patterns with hormonal contraception.
O-072
BMP4 Prevents Thrombin-Induced Endometrial Endothelial
Dysfunction and Inflammation: Therapeutic Implications for Abnormal
Uterine Bleeding. Cemre Su Kayisli†, Asli Ozmen, Busra Cetinkaya-
Un, Burak Un, Joseph Huang, Frederick Schatz, Charles J Lockwood∗.
University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.
Introduction: Progestin-only long-acting contraceptives (pLARCs)
induce endometrial stromal cell decidualization, resulting in high levels
of tissue factor expression. Together with prothrombin leakage from
pLARC-induced dilated microvessels, elevated tissue factor causes excess
thrombin generation. This triggers inflammation, aberrant angiogenesis,
72A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
and proteolysis, thereby contributing to abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB).
Bone Morphogenetic Protein 4 (BMP4), a TGFβ superfamily member,
regulates vascular development, and is key for the normal differentiation
of endothelial progenitor cells. Thus, we hypothesized that BMP4 protects
against thrombin-mediated pLARC-induced AUB.
Methods: Global microarray analysis was performed on human
endometrial endothelial cells (HEECs, n=3) and human umbilical vein
endothelial cells (HUVECs, n=3) treated with 1U/ml thrombin. Among
the differentially expressed genes (DEGs), VCAM1, SELE, IL8, PTGS2,
BMP4, and PRICKLE, were validated by qPCR. Primary HEEC cultures
(n=3) were treated with vehicle control, 1 U/ml thrombin alone, or 100
ng/ml recombinant (r) BMP4 24 h prior to treatment with thrombin, or
simultaneously with thrombin. These cultures were then evaluated by
XTT cell viability assay, tube formation and qPCR analysis of IL8 levels.
Results were analyzed by One-Way ANOVA with P<0.05 considered
statistically significant.
Results: In microarray analysis, thrombin induced 204 and 143 DEGs in
HEECs and HUVECs, respectively, of which 74 were common in both
cell types. Analysis of qPCR showed that compared to control, thrombin
significantly increases VCAM1, SELE, IL8, and PTGS2 levels, while
decreasing BMP4, and PRICKLE1 levels in both HEECs and HUVECs
(P<0.05). ImageJ analysis of tube formation revealed that thrombin
significantly reduced 14/16 parameters of vascular integrity including
the total length and number of junctions, segments, and branches of the
vascular network (P<0.05). However, all these disruptive effects were
prevented by rBMP4-pretreatment at 24 and 48 h (P<0.05), whereas
only 3/16 parameters were improved by simultaneous co-treatment
(P<0.05).Thrombin also reduced cell viability vs control (1.13± 0.03 vs
1.47± 0.02, P<0.05), which was blunted by rBMP4 co-treatment, either
simultaneously (1.29± 0.02, P<0.05) or as a pretreatment (1.44± 0.03,
P<0.05). Moreover, rBMP4 also inhibited thrombin-induced IL8 levels
(P<0.05).
Conclusion: Our results indicate that BMP4 prevents thrombin-induced
inflammation, disruption of vascular tube formation and reduced cell
viability in HEECs. These results suggest that therapeutic use of rBMP4
may block thrombin-induced aberrant angiogenesis and inflammation,
thereby mitigating pLARC-induced AUB.
O-073
Neuron-Enriched Extracellular Vesicle MicroRNA Alterations
Associated with Early Life Oral Contraceptive Use. Roxann Roberson-
Nay,1 Vasily Yakovlev,2 Rebekah L Frye,1 Timothy P York,2 Dana M
Lapato.2 1University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, United States; 2Virginia
Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, United States.
Introduction: Oral contraceptives (OCs) are commonly prescribed early
in life, yet their potential effects on the developing brain remain unclear.
By downregulating gonadal hormones, OCs have been shown to affect
brain morphology and alter functional connectivity in adult women. Since
the brain continues maturing well into the 20s, it is important to assess
whether OCs affect brain biology during this critical developmental phase.
Neuron-enriched extracellular vesicles (NEEVs) provide a non-invasive
method for monitoring brain changes via microRNA (miRNA) cargo,
offering insights into OC-related neurobiological effects. This pilot study
explored whether OC use differentially affects NEEV miRNA expression
between current OC users and OC-naive women.
Methods: Serum samples from 20 young women, including 10 OC users
(>1 year combined monophasic OC use) and 10 natural cycling OC-naïve
women, were processed to isolate L1CAM-enriched EVs and small RNA.
We also measured reproductive hormone levels. MiRNA expression was
quantified using the miRCURY LNA miRNA Focus PCR Panel (Qiagen)
and validated via qPCR. Differential expression was assessed using linear
regression. Pathway enrichment of miRNA target genes was analyzed
using PANTHER.
Results: Twelve miRNAs showed significant differences in the variance
of expression between OC users and OC-naïve participants (Bonferroniadjusted
p < 0.002). PANTHER analysis revealed significant enrichment
of gene targets in the Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor
pathway (FDR q = 5 x 10^-7), a key regulator of pubertal development
and reproductive function.
Conclusion: OC use was associated with miRNA-mediated changes in
NEEVs, potentially influencing neurobiological pathways involved in
reproductive hormone regulation. To better understand the functional
impact on brain development and reproductive health, further research
is needed, especially during adolescence and early adulthood. Our lab
is conducting an ongoing study examining NEEV miRNA expression
across the menstrual cycle and in OC users to expand understanding of
these effects.
O-074
Menstrual Irregularity is Associated with Central Adiposity and Insulin
Resistance Among Samoan Females. Sakurako Oyama†,1 Courtney Choy,2
Melania Selu,3 Maria Arorae,3 Kima Faasalele-Savusa,3 Muagututia Sefuiva
Reupena,4 Take Naseri,5 Veronika Shabanova,6 Clare Flannery,6 Nicola
Hawley∗.2 1Yale University, New Haven, CT, United States; 2Yale School
of Public Health, New Haven, CT, United States; 3Obesity, Lifestyle and
Genetic Adaptations Study Group, Apia, Samoa; 4Lutia I Puava Ae Mapu
I Fagalele, Apia, Samoa; 5Ministry of Health, Apia, Samoa; 6Yale School
of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Studies from high-income countries suggest that obesity
causes ovulatory dysfunction, which often manifests as menstrual
irregularity. Although the Pacific Islands have among the highest
obesity rates globally, only two previous studies have characterized
menstrual irregularity among Pacific Islander females. Both studies
assessed menstrual irregularity using retrospective self-report, which is
notoriously subject to recall bias and interlocuter variation. In this study,
we prospectively tracked the menstrual cycles of n=101 Samoan females
aged 25-39 for ≥90 days using weekly phone calls and characterized
associations between adiposity and menstrual cycle irregularity. We also
examined associations between self-reported and prospectively observed
menstrual cycle characteristics.
Methods: In accordance with American College of Obstetrician and
Gynecologists (ACOG) guidelines, participants were classified as having
irregular menstrual cycles if any fully observed cycle was <21 days or
>35 days long and/or if any incompletely observed cycle was >35 days
long. Wilcoxon rank sum tests were used to examine differences in
body mass index (BMI), waist-to-height ratio (WHR), % body fat, and
glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) between participants with regular and
irregular cycles.
Results: Median BMI in the sample was 38.4 kg/m2 (IQR: 34.2-44.6).
82 participants exceeded Polynesian BMI cutoffs for obesity (>32kg/m2).
Only 34 participants met ACOG criteria for having regular menstrual
cycles. Menstrual irregularity was not associated with age, BMI, or %
body fat. Participants with regular cycles had significantly lower WHR
(median=0.68, IQR: 0.64-0.75 vs median=0.73, IQR: 0.60-0.80; p=.047)
and HbA1c (median=5.5, IQR: 5.4-6.0 vs median=5.9, IQR: 5.7-6.2;
p=.008) compared to those with irregular cycles. Only 14 of 50 participants
who self-reported having regular cycles met ACOG criteria for having
regular menstrual cycles based on prospectively observed data.
Conclusion: Our study demonstrates a concerning prevalence of
menstrual irregularity among Samoan females. Consistent with studies
conducted in other settings, menstrual irregularity was associated with
central adiposity and insulin resistance. Further research is necessary to
better characterize the extent of ovulatory dysfunction among Pacific
Islanders. Our findings also highlight the importance of employing
prospective observation rather than retrospective self-report to assess
menstrual irregularity in this population.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 73A
Friday Orals
O-075
Environmental Chemicals in Hair Care Products Used by Black
Women Enhance Key Processes in Uterine Fibroid Pathogenesis. Eden
D Cohen†,1 Amanda Kallen,2 Shannon D. Whirledge∗.1 1Yale University,
New Haven, CT, United States; 2University of Vermont Larner College
of Medicine, Burlington, VT, United States.
Introduction: While uterine fibroids are the most common tumors found
in women of reproductive age, the molecular mechanisms governing
their pathogenesis are poorly understood, particularly as it pertains to
the racial disparities in this disease. Black women are more likely to
experience more numerous uterine fibroids at an earlier age and with
more severe symptoms. Genetic risk traits cannot fully account for these
racial disparities, suggesting that the exposures Black women experience
may also contribute. Epidemiological studies and in vivo models have
linked environmental exposures to endocrine disrupting chemicals with
uterine fibroid tumorigenesis. We hypothesized that chemicals found in
hair products used by U.S. Black women, methylparaben (MP) and diethyl
phthalate (DEP), would alter key processes in uterine fibroid pathogenesis,
proliferation, expression of steroid hormone receptors, and senescence.
Due to the frequency of hair care product use, we hypothesized that
unique effects would be found in response to acute vs. chronic exposure.
Methods: Immortalized and primary uterine fibroid cells (UtLM) and
uterine smooth muscle cells (UtSMC) were exposed to environmentally
relevant concentrations (0.2 μM, 1.2 μM, and 2 μM) of MP, DEP, or
vehicle. Cell proliferation was evaluated by MTT assay. Transcript
levels of proliferation-associated genes and steroid hormone receptors
were measured by RT-qPCR. Cellular senescence was assessed by betagalactosidase
staining.
Results: MP and DEP significantly increased cell proliferation in a
dose-dependent manner in both cell types. Compared to controls, 2 μM
MP stimulated proliferation by 4.52-fold (p<0.01) and DEP stimulated
proliferation by 1.80-fold (p<0.05) in UtLM cells. Proliferation in UtLM
cells with MP or DEP exposure was associated with significant increases
in CDK4 transcript levels (p<0.01). Interestingly, MP and DEP also
stimulated proliferation in UtSMC cells (p<0.01), suggesting that both
cell types are sensitive to exposure and these chemicals could influence
early events in uterine fibroid development. Evaluation of sex hormone
receptor levels demonstrated that both MP and DEP significantly increased
the expression of PGR in UtLM but not UtSMC cells (p<0.01), while AR
expression was increased in both cell lines by both chemicals (p<0.05).
Finally, senescence was evident at low levels after 5 passages (1-5%) but
demonstrated a significant increase specific to DEP exposure by passage
8 (47% of cells).
Conclusion: This study is the first to demonstrate that exposure to
chemicals found in hair care products used by Black women can induce
proliferation and ultimately senescence in uterine fibroid cells, which
suggests that these chemicals may contribute to the observed racial
disparities in uterine fibroid disease prevalence and outcomes.
O-076
Single-Cell Transcriptomics Illustrates Distinct Peritoneal Immune Cell
Composition in Endometriosis. Mingxin Shi,1 Vijay Kumar Sirohi,2 Nash
Moawad,3 Paul Cooke,2 James MacLean,1 Kanako Hayashi∗.1 1Washington
State University, Pullman, WA, United States; 2University of Florida,
Gainesville, FL, United States; 3University of Florida College of Medicine,
Gainesville, FL, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is a chronic inflammatory disease
characterized by the ectopic growth of endometrial-like tissue outside the
uterine cavity. This condition affects approximately 10% of reproductiveaged
women, leading to persistent pelvic pain and infertility. The
underlying pathophysiological mechanisms remain largely unknown,
which impedes timely diagnosis and effective treatments.
Methods: Utilizing a single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) approach,
we aim to conduct an integrated analysis of endometriosis by examining
peritoneal exudate cells, as well as eutopic, ectopic, and menstrual
endometrial tissues from patients with or without endometriosis. This
analysis will leverage our own generated datasets alongside publicly
available resources to enhance our understanding of the diverse cell types
and biological processes involved in endometriosis.
Results: scRNA-seq analysis unveiled a striking reduction in the
proportions of T and NK cells, accompanied by a significantly increased
proportion of macrophages in the peritoneal exudate cells with
endometriosis. Subclustering of T cells indicated that the CD8+ and CD4+
effector T cells, as well as γδ T cells, were reduced among endometriosis
patients. We also observed a unique pre-exhausted TOXhi CD200hi CD8+
T cell cluster in patients with endometriosis. Conversely, most peritoneal
myeloid subsets in endometriosis remained unchanged proportionally.
Furthermore, enrichment analysis revealed that biological processes
associated with cell proliferation and immune response were weakened
in T cells. In myeloid cells, there was a decline in antigen presentation
processing, while GTPase signaling and cell-matrix adhesion processes
were enhanced. These findings indicate a potential immune compromise
in the pelvic cavity of patients with endometriosis.
Conclusion: Our present data revealed a significant alteration in peritoneal
T cell composition in endometriosis. We propose that this comprehensive
analysis will provide new insights into the pathophysiology of the disease.
O-077
The Predictive Value of Biomarkers in Combination with Uterine
Electromyograhpy in Symptomatic Women. Pin Li†, Miaoting Zhou†,
Qian Huang∗, Xueya Qian∗, Yunshan Chen∗, Zheng Zheng∗, Huishu Liu∗.
Guangzhou Women & Children’s Medical Center, Guangzhou Medical
University, Guangzhou, China.
Introduction: Uterine electromyography (EMG) and interleukin-6
(IL-6) have shown potential in predicting preterm birth. However, a
combined predictive model incorporating both EMG and IL-6 has not
been developed. This study aims to compare the predictive accuracy of
uterine EMG and IL-6 against current clinical methods for predicting
preterm delivery within 7 days in symptomatic women.
Methods: This is a prospective cohort study of subjects with singleton,
symptoms of preterm labor, clinically intact membranes, between 24+0
weeks and 34+0 weeks of gestational age. A cohort of 88 symptomatic
pregnant women was assessed using four predictive methods: biomarkers
(IL-6), uterine EMG, cervical length (CL), and fFN. Clinical characteristics
and predictive parameters were collected. Based on the gestational age at
delivery, the study subjects were divided into a group delivering within 7
days and a group delivering 7 days or more after delivery. Comparisons
of clinical features between the two groups were made using t-tests and
chi-square tests. Significant parameters were included in a binary logistic
regression analysis to identify key predictors. A combined predictive index
was developed, and ROC curve analyses were performed to compare
the predictive accuracy of individual significant parameters and the
combined index.
Results: Uterine EMG parameters of total power and IL-6 levels were
significantly different in women who delivered within 7 days compared
to those who did not (P<0.05). The combined model of total power, IL-6
and CL predicted preterm delivery with an area under the curve (AUC) of
0.91, which was higher than the AUCs for CL (0.71) , Total power (0.84)
and IL-6 (0.79). The integration of total power, IL-6 and CL improved
the predictive accuracy for preterm birth compared to individual clinical
methods.
Conclusion: Uterine EMG parameters of total power and IL-6 levels
at threatened preterm labor diagnosis may have an important role in the
preterm birth prediction. The combination of total power, IL-6 and CL
provides a more accurate prediction of preterm birth within 7 days than
clinical methods.
74A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
O-078
Functional Effects of Oxytocin Receptor Glycosylation. Kaci T Martin†,
Erin L Reinl, Kevin K Prifti†, Melissa G Gibson, Sarah K England,
Antonina I Frolova∗. Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis,
MO, United States.
Introduction: The oxytocin receptor (OXTR) is a key mediator of uterine
contractions during parturition. Prolonged oxytocin (OT) infusions result
in loss of OXTR abundance at the cell surface and is thought to decrease
contractile response in the uterus. Glycosylation is known to influence
protein trafficking to the cell surface and OXTR is known to have three
putative glycosylation sites. Our objective was to determine the role
of glycosylation on OXTR receptor abundance at the cell surface and
function.
Methods: We generated plasmids expressing OXTR with an N-terminal
HA tag and a C-terminal GFP tag (WT-OXTR). We then mutated,
asparagine (N) to glutamine (Q), putative glycosylation sites (N8, N15,
N26) individually (8Q-OXTR, 15Q-OXTR, and 26Q-OXTR), or in
combination at two (8,15Q-OXTR, 8,26Q-OXTR, and 15,26Q-OXTR) or
all three (8,15,26Q-OXTR) sites on the OXTR. Plasmid constructs were
transiently transfected into HEK293-T cells for analysis of downstream
signaling. To analyze endogenous OXTR glycosylation, we utilized an
immortalized myometrial cell line with CRISPR inserted HA tag at the
N-terminus of the endogenous OXTR gene (HA-hHM cells). OXTR
abundance at the cell surface was measured by flow cytometry, utilizing
the N-terminal HA-tag saturated with phycoerythrin conjugated anti-HA
antibody fluorescence. OT-induced calcium release assays were performed
to measure effects on OXTR signaling. To account for differences in
trafficking, WT transfected cells were treated with PNGaseF, an enzyme
that specifically cleaves N-glycosylation, prior to calcium release assays.
Results: Western blotting indicated three distinct bands of the OXTR
representing unglycosylated, partially glycosylated, and fully glycosylated
forms in WT and HA-hHM cells. Treatment with PNGaseF depleted the
glycosylated forms. None of the single mutations affected distribution of
OXTR forms, while double mutations led to the presence of only partially
glycosylated and unglycosylated forms. Mutation of all three residues
resulted in a complete loss of OXTR glycosylation. Flow cytometry
analyses showed a significant decrease of OXTR on the cell surface for
double and triple mutants (8,15Q=59%, 8,26Q=86%, 15,26Q=76%, and
8,15,26Q=97% decrease; p<0.05 compared to WT for all). OT-induced
calcium release had a significant shift in EC50 for 15,26Q (156nM, p<0.05)
compared to the WT (77nM). While 8,15Q and 8,15,26Q had a significant
shift in EC50 (212nM, p=0.0147 and 457nM, p<0.001) and Emax (68.98%
and 69.04% of WT, p≤0.0001 for both). PNGaseF treatment of WT did
not alter surface expression of the receptor. Additionally, there was no
difference in OT-induced calcium release in PNGaseF treated cells.
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that glycosylation is essential for the
proper trafficking of OXTR to the cell surface but does not independently
affect receptor activation or signaling.
O-079
Subchorionic Hematoma Transforms Amnion Mesenchymal Cells
into Myofibroblasts and Causes Fibrosis of Fetal Membranes. Eriko
Yasuda†, Haruta Mogami∗, Sunao Matsuzaka†, Yu Matsuzaka†, Asako
Inohana†, Masahito Takakura†, Yusuke Ueda†, Yosuke Kawamura†,
Yoshitsugu Chigusa∗, Masaki Mandai∗. Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
Introduction: Subchorionic hematomas (SCH) increases the risk of
preterm prelabor rupture of membranes. When tissue is injured, fibroblasts
are activated to become myofibroblasts for repair, regeneration, and
restoration of homeostasis. Myofibroblasts produce extracellular matrix
components like collagen. However excess fibrosis deteriorates organ
functions. Here, we investigated the effects of hematoma on fetal
membranes.
Methods: 1. The amnion of 8 cases of SCH with preterm delivery (26.3
± 2.6 weeks of gestation, SCH group) and 6 cases of gestational agematched
cesarean delivery (26.0 ± 1.3 weeks of gestation, control group)
were histologically compared. 2. We developed an intrauterine hematoma
(IUH) model in which placental ege of pregnant mice were injured with
a 27G needle at 15 dpc. , comparing a control mice in which phosphatebuffered
saline was injected under fetal membranes.3. Human amnion
mesenchymal cells (AMCs) were co-cultured with the M2 macrophages
differentiated from THP-1 cells.
Results: 1. Iron-laden macrophages migrated to the amnion of the SCH
group (3.1 vs 0.0 cells/field, p=0.037), and these macrophages were
CD163+, CD206+ and CD86- M2 phenotype. Collagen layer in the amnion
tended to be thickened (58.7 vs 36.9 μm, p=0.075) in the SCH. The
number of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), a marker of myofibroblasts,
expressing cells in AMCs was increased in the SCH (89.9 vs 47.8%,
p=0.041). Vimentin+ cells in amniotic epithelial cells (AECs) increased
(79.9 vs 47.8%, p=0.008), suggesting the existence of the epithelialmesenchymal
transition (EMT). α-SMA+ cells were also increased in
the epithelial layer of amnion in SCH compared to control (74.6 vs
38.5%, p=0.026), suggesting that some of the myofibroblast might be
supplied by epithelial cells of amnion.2. In the IUH model, hematoma was
confirmed between amnion and yolk sac. Migration of F4/80+ CD206+ M2
macrophages and thickening of amnion with increased mesenchymal cell
were observed in the IUH model. α-SMA+ myofibroblasts were increased
in the amnion of IUH, and phosphorylation of Smad3 was observed in
these cells.3. Co-culture with M2 macrophages transformed human AMCs
to myofibroblasts, increasing mRNA expression of ACTA2(x1.83, p<0.01)
and phosphorylation of nuclear Smad3 in AMCs with immunoblot. TGF-β
receptor kinase inhibitor inhibited these changes.
Conclusion: M2 macrophages migrated to the amnion of SCH, which may
transform amnion mesenchymal cells into myofibroblasts presumably via
TGF-β-Smad3 pathway. These myofibroblasts may contribute the fibrosis
of the fetal membranes in SCH.
O-080
Diet-Induced Obesity in Mice Disrupts Mitochondrial Dynamics
and Ultrastructure in the Uterus at Term. Kevin K Prifti†, Ruth M
Gill, Wandy L Beatty, Jordan L Rich, Antonina I Frolova∗. Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Obesity delays spontaneous labor onset, slows labor
progression, and can result in labor dystocia, contributing to the higher
maternal and neonatal complications experienced by women with
obesity during labor. While the association between maternal obesity and
abnormal labor has been well documented, the mechanisms responsible
for this remain understudied. Mitochondria are dynamic organelles that
play a key role in the conversion of substrates to energy. In states of altered
metabolic intake, mitochondrial fusion and fission allow for maintenance
of mitochondrial integrity, shape and function. Disruption of mitochondrial
dynamics is associated with obesity and muscle pathophysiology. We have
previously developed a mouse model of maternal diet-induced obesity
(DIO) that exhibits decreased uterine contractility and labor dystocia.
Our objective in this study was to utilize this DIO mouse model and
analyze mitochondrial dynamics and ultrastructure in the uterus at term
and during labor.
Methods: Four-week-old female C57BL/6J mice were fed either a
formulated control chow (CON; 13% fat, 60% carbohydrates [3%
sucrose] and 25% protein) or an obesogenic chow (DIO; 59% fat, 26%
carbohydrates [18% sucrose] and 15% protein) for 10 weeks prior to
mating and throughout gestation. CON and DIO females were mated to
control chow fed males. Whole uterus was collected from CON and DIO
dams at term non-labor (TNL) (pregnancy day 18.5) or term labor (TL)
(following delivery of first pup). Western blot analysis was used to quantify
proteins that regulate fusion (OPA1, MFN1, MFN2) and fission (DRP1,
MFF). For morphological analyses of mitochondria at the ultrastructural
level, whole uterus was collected at TNL, fixed, dehydrated and embedded
in resin. Ultrathin sections were cut, stained and viewed on a transmission
electron microscope (TEM).
Results: Maternal DIO decreased abundance of proteins regulating
mitochondrial fission. Both DRP1 and MFF were significantly decreased
in DIO uteri compared to CON at TL (p<0.05 for both) and MFF was
significantly decreased at TNL (p<0.05) with DRP1 trending lower. There
was no significant difference in proteins regulating fusion. TEM showed
that mitochondria in DIO uteri appeared to aggregate further from the cell
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 75A
Friday Orals
membrane compared to CON uteri and had a greater variability in shape
and size. Additionally, mitochondria in CON uteri had a higher density
matrix and tighter cristae compared to DIO uteri.
Conclusion: Maternal DIO impaired mitochondrial dynamics in both
TNL and TL uteri, specifically affecting proteins that regulate fission.
Mitochondria in DIO mice have less dense matrix and cristae, are more
variable in shape and size and appear fragmented. These data reveal a
dysregulation of uterine mitochondrial integrity in the setting of maternal
obesity, suggesting this as a mechanism of labor dystocia observed in
this mouse model.
O-081
A Broad-Spectrum Chemokine Inhibitor Prevents Preterm Labor
in Mice by Suppressing Intra-Amniotic Inflammation. Adam Boros-
Rausch,1,2 Nicole Ballan,1 Anna Dorogin,1 Lubna Nadeem,1 Oksana
Shynlova,1,2,3 Stephen Lye.1,2,3 1The Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research
Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada; 2The University
of Toronto, The Department of Physiology, Toronto, ON, Canada; 3The
University of Toronto, The Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
Toronto, ON, Canada.
Introduction: We have reported earlier that a broad-spectrum chemokine
inhibitor (BSCI) can block uterine contractions and prevent infectious
preterm birth (PTB) in mice and non-human primates. However, a third
of women delivering preterm have intra-amniotic inflammation (IAI)
without detectable infection. Here, we test the ability of BSCI to inhibit
‘sterile’ IAI sPTB induced by intra-amniotic infusion of the ‘alarmin’
molecule IL-1α using a mouse model of gestation.
Methods: C57BL/6 mice (n=95) were randomly divided into 4 groups.
Starting on gestational day (GD) 16.5 half the animals were anesthetized
and, using an ultrasound-guided needle, injected with saline (20 μl vehicle)
or IL-1α (400ng in 20 μl) into each amniotic sac. Half the mice received
tail vein injections of saline (vehicle) and the second half-injection of
BSCI (10 mg/kg/day) on GD15.5, 16.5, 17.5 and 18.5. To evaluate the
short-term effect of preventive BSCI treatment, animals were euthanized at
2, 8, and 24 hrs after IL-1α injection (n=5-6/group). For long-term effect,
maternal and fetal tissues (myometrium, decidua, cervix, placenta, liver,
amniotic fluid, maternal serum, n=5-10/group) were collected at full term
(GD19.5, 72 hours post-IL-1α), for biochemical analysis (immunoblotting,
qPCR, ELISA, Mas spec) or fixed for IHC analysis.
Results: Administration of IL-1α alone induced sPTB in 8/8 dams
(‘injection-to-delivery interval’/IDI: 23.7 ± 4.4 hrs). BSCI prevented
IL-1α-induced sPTB in 9/10 dams (IDI: 23.7 vs 62.8 hrs, P < 0.001).
Expression of multiple cytokines (IL1b, IL6, IL-10, TNF-α, Csf2) and
chemokine (Ccl2, Ccl4, Cxcl1, Cxcl) genes in myometrial, decidual,
placental, and liver were dramatically up-regulated 2 hrs after IL-1α
injection (1.82- to 981-fold increase) but significantly (P < 0.001)
attenuated by BSCI. In the myometrium, BSCI treatment significantly
induced transcript level of anti-inflammatory proteins AnnexinA1,
AnnexinA2, TGF-B, PDGF, SPARC (up to 10-fold increase), and
inhibited pro-contractile/inflammatory genes NF-kB, PTGS2, GJA1,
ARK1C1, Calponin1 (2-27-fold decrease, P < 0.01-0.001). Mass spec of
myometrial tissue revealed a significant (P < 0.05-0.001) induction of antiinflammatory
proteins AnnexinA3, AnnexinA6, PKA, Adenylyl cyclase,
Inhibitor of NF-kB, COL1A1, COL1A3, and IGFBP6, as well as an M2
macrophage marker CD206, 24 hrs post BSCI treatment.
Conclusion: BSCI inhibited IL-1α-induced sPTB in mice by suppressing
sterile IAI through engaging endogenous anti-inflammatory mechanisms.
These data suggest that BSCI may be used to target inflammatory
responses and prevent sPTB in high-risk women.
O-082
Predictive Factors for Emergency Cervical Cerclage Efficacy:
A Retrospective Case Series. Cecile C Hulshoff†,1 Marc E.A.
Spaanderman∗,1,2 Ralph R Scholten∗,1 Joris Van Drongelen∗.1 1Radboud
University Medical Center, Nijmegen, Netherlands; 2Maastricht University
Medical Center, Maastricht, Netherlands.
Introduction: An emergency (rescue) cervical cerclage can be offered as
a last resort option to pregnant women presenting with cervical dilatation
and prolapsed fetal membranes in the second trimester of pregnancy, due
to cervical insufficiency. The aim of this study was to evaluate emergency
cerclage efficacy in preventing extreme preterm birth (PTB), in both
singleton and multifetal pregnancies, and to identify key predictive factors
for unsuccessful outcomes.
Methods: We conducted a 15-year observational cohort analysis
at Radboud University Medical Center, including all women who
underwent transvaginal emergency cerclage. Inclusion criteria included
cervical dilation (≥1 cm) and/or prolapse of fetal membranes at or
beyond external os, between 16-24 weeks of gestational age (GA).
Primary and secondary outcomes included survival, GA at delivery,
pregnancy prolongation. Subanalyses were performed for singleton and
twin pregnancies. Secondary subanalysis examined prognostic factors
for delivery <28 weeks of GA. Statistical analyses included univariate
and multivariate analyses to identify predictors of PTB <28 weeks GA.
Significant variables from univariable analysis (p<0.2) were included in
the multivariate model (p<0.05).
Results: A total of 100 women were included: 65 singleton pregnancies,
35 twin pregnancies and one triplet pregnancy. There were 7 failed
procedures, all in singleton pregnancies, due to PPROM during procedure
or too advanced dilatation. We observed a median GA at delivery of
29.9 weeks and pregnancy prolongation of 53.3 days. Overall survival
was 75%, with a fetal survival of 92% and neonatal survival of 82%.
For pregnancies that passed 24 weeks of GA, overall survival was 92%.
Outcomes were comparable between singleton and twin pregnancies,
however singleton pregnancies had a significantly higher rate of PTB
<24 weeks (30% vs 8%), partly due to more failed cerclage placements.
In contrast, cerclage tearing was more frequent in twin pregnancies. Key
factors associated with reduced pregnancy prolongation were vaginal
bleeding, prolapsed membranes, cervical dilation ≥4.0 cm, elevated white
bloodcell count (≥13.600 mm³) and CRP levels (≥15.0 mg/L). Multivariate
analysis revealed dilation ≥4.0 cm, prolapsed membranes, and elevated
white bloodcell count to be significant predictors of PTB <28 weeks, with
prolapsed membranes being the strongest independent factor.
Conclusion: Emergency cerclage is associated with high survival in
both singletons and twins. Clinical factors, including advanced cervical
dilation and elevated infection parameters, significantly affect its efficacy,
although the most important factor appears to be prolapsed membranes.
These findings provide valuable insights that can be used in counselling
of couples about pros and cons of an emergency cerclage.
O-083
The Association Between Total Fetal Fraction of Cell Free DNA and
Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes in ART Cycles. Milana Bochkur Dratver†,
Charikleia Kalliora, Jessica Tozour, Olivia Hatton, Sneha Mani, Nathan
Koelper, Suneeta Senapati, Monica Mainigi∗. University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, PA, United States.
Introduction: Low fetal fraction (FF) of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is
associated with increased risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes, including
hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP), low birthweight and preterm
birth. Pregnancies achieved through assisted reproductive technologies
(ART) are at increased risk of HDP and disorders of placentation. Little
is known about the relationship between FF in ART pregnancies and
adverse pregnancy outcomes commonly seen after ART. This study aims
to investigate whether FF differs between ART and unassisted pregnancies
and if FF is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes in ART cycles.
Methods: Fetal fraction data from routine cfDNA testing for aneuploidy
were collected from 345 singleton pregnancies: 105 fresh embryo transfer
cycles (Fresh ET), 140 frozen embryo transfer cycles (Frozen ET) and
100 unassisted conceptions (Unassisted). Demographic data, pregnancy
76A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
complications and perinatal outcomes were collected. Chi-square, Fisher’s
exact test and t-test or Wilcoxon Rank-sum were used for categorical and
continuous variables, where appropriate. Logistic regression was used to
determine the association of FF with HDP and a composite outcome of
abnormal placentation (inclusive of HDP, intrauterine growth restriction,
and placental abruption) adjusting for gestational age at cfDNA draw,
BMI, and multiple comparisons (p<0.017 considered significant).
Results: Baseline characteristics were comparable across groups, except
for maternal age and BMI. The Unassisted group was younger than the
Fresh and Frozen ET groups (34.6 ± 3.5 yrs vs 35.6 ± 3.7 yrs (p=0.008)
vs 36.1 ± 3.8 yrs (p=0.002), respectively) and the Fresh ET group had a
higher BMI compared to Unassisted (26.2 [23.0-30.4] vs 24.0 [21.8-27.9],
p=0.013). There was no difference in FF between groups (Unassisted 8%
[6-9.9%], Fresh 7.3% [6-10%], Frozen 8% [6-9%], p=0.178). There were
no significant differences in incidence of HDP amongst the three groups
(Unassisted 14%, Fresh ET 20%, Frozen ET 26%, p=0.12) or incidence
of disorders of placentation (Unassisted 28%, Fresh ET 32%, Frozen ET
36%). FF was not associated with the individual or composite adverse
outcomes in Unassisted or Fresh ET groups. Notably, in the Frozen
ET group, increasing FF was associated with decreased odds of both
gestational hypertension (gHTN) (aOR 0.51 [0.28-0.92]) and adverse
outcomes related to placentation (aOR 0.63 [0.41-0.96]).
Conclusion: Although FF of cfDNA does not vary significantly between
ART and unassisted pregnancies, it may be a marker of future risk in
Frozen ETs as lower percentages of FF are associated with gHTN and
abnormalities of placentation in this group. Follow up studies in a larger
cohort will allow us to refine these associations and predictive potential
of cfDNA FF.
O-084
Hysteroscopic Lysis of Adhesions Before IVF is Associated with
Lower Live Birth Rates but Similar Cumulative Live Birth Rates
When Compared to Controls. Adi Steinhart†,1 Kaleb Noruzi†,1 Sarah
Rubin†,1 Shmuel Sashitsky†,1 Martin Keltz∗.1,2 1New York Medical College,
Valhalla, NY, United States; 2WestMed Reproductive Services, Purchase,
NY, United States.
Introduction: Intrauterine adhesions (IUA) are associated with infertility,
recurrent miscarriage, and poor in-vitro fertilization (IVF) outcomes.
There is limited controlled data on the effect of hysteroscopic lysis of
adhesions (LOA) and the number of procedures required prior to IVF.
Methods: A single-institution-surgeon, retrospective case-control study of
all IVF cycles between January 2016 and December 2023. Cases included
all patients who underwent hysteroscopic LOA for IUA and ET. Cases
were grouped by the presence of retained placental tissue and IUA severity:
mild = < 20% surface area, moderate = 20-50%, and severe = > 50%.
Controls included all patients who had a normal uterus on transvaginal
ultrasound (US), 3D US, SIS, and 3D SIS and underwent ET. The primary
outcome is live birth rate (LBR) per cycle. Secondary outcomes are
cumulative LBR (CLBR), miscarriage rate (MR), and number of LOAs.
Data analysis was performed using R software including t-test, chi-square
test, and logistic regression with age adjustment.
Results: 64 patients (146 cycles) had LOA and there were 238 patients
(417 cycles) in the control group. Patients who had LOA were older than
controls (38.5±4.34 vs 36.2±4.36, p=0.0002) with more miscarriages
(0.88±1.2 vs 0.49±0.84, p=0.02) but no difference in parity (0.43±0.66
vs 0.54±0.82, p=0.3) or BMI (26.6±5.3 vs 27.8±6.4, p=0.2). After LOA,
LBR was lower (30.8% vs 48.2%, p=0.0008; OR 0.53, p=0.003) and MR
was higher (29.7% vs 13.7%, p=0.005; OR 2.7, p=0.004) than controls. In
cycles with euploid SET, LBR trended lower (40% vs 50.8%, p=0.1) and
MR trended higher (21.7% vs 10.1%, p=0.07). CLBR was no different
than controls (62.5% vs 70.2%, p=0.3). After lysis of mild, moderate, and
severe IUA, there was no difference in LBR (30.6% vs 26.7% vs 43.5%,
p=0.3), MR (32.1% vs 30.4% vs 16.7%, p=0.7), or CLBR (72% vs 55.6
vs 63.6%, p=0.5). When comparing LOA patients with retained placental
tissue, no retained tissue, and controls, LBR (29.4% vs 31% vs 48.2%
(p=0.002)) was lower than controls, CLBR (44.4% vs 65.6% vs 70.2%,
(p=0.2)) trended lower with retained tissue, while MR (54.5% vs 24.5% vs
13.7% (p=0.002)) was highest with retained tissue. Patients with mild IUA
had the fewest LOAs (1.6±0.71), moderate IUA had more LOAs (2.6±1.6,
p=0.04), and severe IUA had the most LOAs (3±1.9, p=0.02) prior to ET.
Conclusion: Patients who underwent IVF-ET after LOA had lower
LBR and increased MR compared to controls. CLBR was the same as
controls for all groups after LOA except those with retained placental
tissue. Retained placental tissue was associated with the highest MR.
Increasing severity of IUA required more procedures but resulted in the
same LBR and CLBR.
O-085
Pharmacologic Inhibition of the Inflammatory Cascade Protects
Against Alkylating Ovotoxicity in Mice. Limor Man, Christopher Moutos,
Jadyn Matthews, Laury Arazi, Zev Rosenwaks, Daylon James∗. Weill
Cornell Medicine, NYC, NY, United States.
Introduction: Alkylating agents like cyclophosphamide (Cp) are widely
used to effectively treat various cancers and autoimmune diseases, but Cp
and its metabolites are known to reduce the ovarian reserve via several
proposed mechanisms. Apoptosis [1], primordial follicle (PrF) activation
[2], oxidative damage [3], and inflammation[4] have been implicated, but
the cascade of signal transduction and cellular behaviors that ultimately
converge on PrF loss is not well understood. To address this, we performed
bulk RNA sequencing of neonatal ovaries at discrete intervals post-Cp
treatment and found upregulation of inflammation-related transcripts,
primarily related to cascades driven by interferon (IFN) and/or tumor
necrosis factor (TNF) cytokines. Injection of TNFalpha or INFbeta alone
resulted in a significant reduction in Prf counts. Here, we tested whether
co-treatment of mice with anti-inflammatory agents blocks ovarian
damage conferred by Cp.
Methods: We injected saline, anti-TNF Antibody (Ab), anti-INFar1
Ab, CRID3, or Ruxolitinib, followed by Cp (60 mg/kg once a week)
intraperitoneally to C57/B6 7-week-old females (n=4 in each group).
Anti-mouse TNFa and Anti-Mouse IFNAR1 Abs were administered
once a week, while the rest of the treatments were administered daily.
A sixth group was injected only with daily saline. Two weeks after
initial injections, mouse weights were recorded, ovaries were harvested,
weighed, fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde, and underwent histologic
evaluation with H&E staining and light microscopy imaging.
Results: Mouse weights were not different in any experimental arm
when compared to saline. The average ovarian weight was lower after Cp
treatment vs. saline; 2.88±0.64 mg, Cp; 2.00±0.76 mg (p=0.03). Histologic
analysis and PrF count revealed a significant retention of PrF following
pre-treatment with Ruxolitinib, in all other experimental arms there was
a significant reduction of up to 3 times in the number of PrF following
CP administration compared to saline. Saline-31.63±6.28; Cp-11.25±6.71,
(p<0.0001); CRID3-9.38±4.17, (p<0.0001); Ruxolitinib-26.29±3.64,
(p=NS); Anti TNFa-17.25±9.18, (p=0.003); Anti IFNAR1-13.88±8.41,
(p=0.0003).
Conclusion: Inflammation plays an important role in acute ovarian
damage conferred by Cp administration. Administering a panel of
anti-inflammatory compounds before Cp, we found Ruxolitinib to be a
promising therapeutic intervention. Further investigation of proper dosing,
administration, mechanism of inflammatory ovotoxicity, and screening
for combinatorial treatments is warranted.
O-086
Umbilical Cord Mesenchymal Stem Cell Derived Exosomes Ameliorate
Testicular Toxicity Caused by Cyclophosphamide In Vivo. Mervat
Mostafa Omran†,1 Farzana Liakath Ali,1 Omer Raheem,2 Ayman Al-
Hendy∗.1 1University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States; 2Cleveland
Clinic, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
Introduction: With the advent of new-generation cancer therapeutic
agents, cancer survival rates have increased over the past few decades.
Male infertility in cancer survivors not only impacts the inability to have
their biological children but can also impact their emotional health, selfesteem,
relationships, social image, finances, and overall well-being.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 77A
Friday Orals
We leveraged the regenerative effect of human umbilical cord-derived
Mesenchymal stem cell exosomes (h-UCMSC-Exo) to restore
the testicular damage from the cytotoxic effects of chemotherapy
(Cyclophosphamide).
Methods: A chemotherapy-induced testicular dysfunctional model was
established by exposure to cyclophosphamide in vivo for 12-monthold
mice (n=5) in each group. After 7 days of cyclophosphamide
administration, The mice received a different regimen of exosome
intratesticular injection with anesthesia, single low dose (1.5 billion EVs
particle) (EL-S), multiple low dose (EL-M), and single high dose (3 billion
EVs particles) (EH-S). We assessed the effects of different regimens of
exosomes after 7 days by analyzing Testicular Size, and Testicular Weight,
serum hormone levels, testicular histopathology and Electron Microscope
(EM) imaging and compare it by negative and positive control.
Results: Our data indicates the effect of h-UCMSC-Exo by restore
the testicular damage in mice. Interestingly, mice that received post
chemotherapy injections of h-UCMSC-Exo showed significantly higher
serum testosterone levels 7.6, 12.6, 16.7 ng/ml with EL-S, EL-M and
EH-S exosome injection, respectively (p < 0.01). The serum hormone
analysis showed chemotherapy caused permanent damage to the Leydig
cells, with a significant reduction in testosterone secretion. However, the
different regimens of exosome-post treated groups demonstrated decreased
Leydig cell injury, with restored testosterone production. Additionally Post
chemotherapy treatment with h-UCMSC-Exo Improved Testicular Size,
and Testicular Weight after chemotherapy-Induced testicular toxicity.
Conclusion: EVs restore both Leydig and Sertoli cell morphology,
resulting in testosterone production, and the EM results on the restoration
of mitochondrial architecture. Our study demonstrates that h-UCMSC-Exo
can potentially be a novel fertility restoration approach in men triaged
for chemotherapy treatment.
O-087
Androgen Production by Ovarian Theca Cells is Augmented by FSHDependent
Stimulation of Prostaglandin E2 Production by Granulosa
Cells. Jacey Hu†,1 Chelsea Fox,2 Lingzhi Zhang,1 Benjamin Moeller,3
Antoni J Duleba∗.1 1University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA,
United States; 2University of South Carolina, Greenville, SC, United States;
3University of California Davis, Davis, CA, United States.
Introduction: Traditional concepts of the “two-cell, two-gonadotropin”
theory postulate that LH stimulates the production of androgens in ovarian
theca cells (TC), while FSH stimulates granulosa cells (GC) to produce
estrogen. Several previous studies indicated that GC may also enhance
synthesis of androgen by TC; however, the mechanisms mediating this
effect remain unclear. Since TC do not possess FSH receptors, and GC
do not produce significant amounts of androgens, direct stimulation
of androgen synthesis by FSH is unlikely. Consequently, we aimed to
evaluate the mechanisms of paracrine interactions between GC and TC
and the role of FSH in androgen synthesis.
Methods: Rat TC and GC were isolated and cultured separately or
co-cultured (but separated by Matrigel) with or without FSH. TC were
also cultured with conditioned media from GC cultures. Concentrations
of androgens and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in culture media were
quantified. The expression of key genes regulating androgen production
were determined by qRT-PCR. Statistical analyses included Student’s
t-test, ANOVA and post-hoc Tukey Test; differences were considered
significant at p<0.05.
Results: FSH stimulated co-cultures of TC and GC to up-regulate the
accumulation of androgens by up to 600-fold; these effects were paralleled
by a profound increase in TC expression of key genes regulating androgen
production including CYP17A1. In cultures of isolated TC, conditioned
media from GC (cultured with FSH) also greatly increased androgen
accumulation and expression of CYP17A1. In cultures of isolated GC,
FSH (in a dose-dependent fashion) stimulated the production of PGE2. In
cultures of isolated TC, PGE2 (in a dose-dependent fashion), stimulated
androgen accumulation and the expression of CYP17A1.
Conclusion: This report provides novel evidence that androgen production
by TC is enhanced in a paracrine fashion by PGE2 produced by GC and
stimulated by FSH. These findings are complementary to our previous
in vitro and in vivo observations that ovarian androgen production is
inhibited by the anti-inflammatory action of ibuprofen: an inhibitor of
prostaglandin synthesis. Since PGE2 is one of the key end-products of
inflammatory pathways, our observations underscore the importance of
these pathways in ovarian androgen production.
O-088
Role of Insulin Hypersecretion in a Mouse Model of Polycystic Ovary
Syndrome. Emma J Houston†, Nicole M Templeman∗. University of
Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada.
Introduction: Insulin resistance and associated hyperinsulinemia are
common features of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) that perpetuate
ovulatory dysfunction and hyperandrogenism. Despite the high
prevalence of hyperinsulinemia in PCOS patients, its relationship to
PCOS pathogenesis has not been fully resolved, particularly during early
disease progression. We hypothesized that reducing insulin production in
a PCOS mouse model would mitigate many of the detrimental metabolic
and reproductive features of PCOS, including elevated androgen levels,
ovulatory dysfunction, and infertility.
Methods: Using a strain of mice with genetically reduced endogenous
insulin production (Ins2-/-;Ins2+/-) and littermate controls with full Ins2
expression (Ins2-/-;Ins2+/+), PCOS-like phenotypes and controls were
generated via prenatal exposure to anti-Müllerian hormone (PAMH),
compared to prenatal PBS (PPBS). Reproductive characteristics were
assessed in PAMH- and PPBS-exposed female mice starting from
weaning, via anogenital distance measurements and estrous cycle
tracking. Metabolic phenotypes from 1-2 months were examined by
measuring fasting plasma insulin levels and blood glucose responses to
an intraperitoneal glucose or insulin injection (i.e., glucose tolerance test
(GTT) or insulin tolerance test (ITT)). Further reproductive and metabolic
tests, including tracking of estrous cycles, testosterone levels, GTTs, ITTs,
and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion tests, will be assessed as mice
grow older. Data were analyzed by two-way ANOVA.
Results: Anogenital distance was significantly increased from postnatal
day 25-60 in PAMH-exposed Ins2-/-;Ins2+/+ (n=13) and Ins2-/-;Ins2+/- (n=8)
mice, compared to PPBS-exposed Ins2-/-;Ins2+/+ (n=13) and Ins2-/-;Ins2+/-
(n=9) controls (p<0.001). This indicates that the PAMH exposure likely
induced hyperadrogenism for both genotypes. From 5-7 weeks of age,
PAMH-exposed Ins2-/-;Ins2+/+ and Ins2-/-;Ins2+/- mice spent significantly
fewer days in estrous and more days in diestrous over a 14-day period,
compared to PPBS controls (p<0.01). While fasting plasma insulin levels
and glucose tolerance were comparable across all groups at 6 weeks of
age, PAMH exposure was associated with a reduction in insulin sensitivity
in 8-week-old mice, compared to PPBS-exposed controls (p<0.001).
There is also a trend for enhanced insulin sensitivity in Ins2-/-;Ins2+/- mice
compared to Ins2-/-;Ins2+/+ mice (p=0.0536).
Conclusion: At 1-2 months of age, PAMH-exposed Ins2-/-;Ins2+/- and
Ins2-/-;Ins2+/+ mice exhibit mild phenotypes of PCOS, including irregular
estrous cycles and increased anogenital distances. Ins2 gene dosage did
not significantly affect the onset and presentation of these PCOS-like
characteristics, at least at this young age. Notably, insulin sensitivity was
reduced in response to PAMH exposure as early as 2 months of age, and
this tended to be most apparent in Ins2-/-;Ins2+/+ mice.
O-089
Bioengineered 3D In Vitro Human Myometrium: A New Approach
to Quantify Myometrial Contractility. Claudia A Collier†,1 Anirudh K
Madyastha†,1 Kaci Martin†,2 Antonina I Frolova∗,2 Shreya A Raghavan∗.1
1Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, United States; 2Washington
University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Timely and effective myometrial contractility is central
to successful obstetric outcomes. Our knowledge of the mechanisms
responsible for myometrial contractility remain poorly understood.
Quantification of myometrial contractility in vitro relies on collagen
gel contraction assays, which do not take collagen remodeling, smooth
muscle connectivity or rhythmic myometrial contractions into account.
The measure of contractility of uterine myometrial biospecimens using
organ bath physiology is a gold standard but is limited by an expiry date
78A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
for ex vivo analyses. Here, we aimed to use regenerative medicine to
bioengineer an in vitro human 3D myometrium, that maintains smooth
muscle connectivity across 3D layers.
Methods: We fabricated 1:10 polydimethyl siloxane (PDMS) molds
and prompted compression buckling with rapid thermal expansion and
cooling. This method induces topographies on the culture surface. The
resulting surfaces had aligned wavy grooves, upon which we seeded
immortalized human myometrial cells. Cells were allowed to align along
the wavy grooves for 3-4 days following which a human type I collagen
gel was overlaid. Once overlaid, surface adherent cells delaminated
into the hydrogel and were allowed to compact over another 3-4 days
to form an in vitro bioengineered human myometrium. Whole mount
immunofluorescence was used to detect smooth muscle connectivity
across cell layers in 3D.
Results: Wavy topographies (12μm wide, 8μm deep) were formed on
PDMS surfaces, allowing for monolayer occupancy of cells. Microscopic
visualization indicated that myometrial smooth muscle cells occupied the
wavy grooves, and over 4 days formed a highly aligned monolayer along
one single axis. To mark this axis, we placed two sterile silk sutures (3mm
long) at either end of the length of the aligned monolayer. 1mg/ml of
collagen gel was overlaid, resulting in the delamination of the monolayer
from the PDMS culture surface into the hydrogel by Day 1. Over the
next 3 days, the myometrial cells compacted the collagen gel, creating a
3D aligned myometrium construct anchored to the silk sutures on either
end. Immunofluorescent evaluation with Vimentin demonstrated robust
cell-cell connectivity across 3D layers of smooth muscle, resulting in a
3-4 cell layer thick (~1mm) myometrial construct.
Conclusion: Our future work is directed towards evaluating spontaneous
and oxytocin-induced contractility in bioengineered myometrium,
benchmarked to primary myometrial strips. Regenerative engineering
may contribute to new insights in myometrial physiology by allowing for
in vitro genetic manipulation of myometrium and evaluation of response
to exogenous uterotonics such as oxytocin.
O-090
Cervical Repair in a Rat Model of Cervical Insufficiency Using
Platelet-Rich Plasma-Embedded Alginate Hydrogel. Elham Ahmadi†,
Mahya Soleimani Mehranjani†, Arya Afrooghe†, Kazemi Maryam†,
Hantoushzadeh Sedigheh, Masoumeh Majidi Zolbin∗. Tehran University
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran, Islamic Republic of.
Introduction: Cervical insufficiency (CI) is defined as a condition in
which the cervix is incapable of maintaining the fetus during the second
trimester without contractions. External damage is one of the etiologies
of CI that can be effectively addressed. An ideal controlled-release drug
delivery system can be achieved by combining platelet-rich plasma
(PRP) with alginate hydrogel, a natural polymer. In this study, we aimed
to investigate the healing process of the cervix through the injection
of alginate hydrogel embedded with PRP (Alg-PRP) in a rat model of
cervical injury.
Methods: In the current study, 40 Wistar female rats were randomly
divided into 4 groups. Three groups were exposed to mechanical
injury to the cervix and treated with Alg-PRP hydrogels, PRPs, and
PBS, respectively. In addition, one group served as a healthy control
without injury or treatment. The functional results including pregnancy
rate and number of pups were analyzed. Also, the regeneration
process was evaluated through the fibrosis pathway using qRT-PCR.
Immunofluorescence staining was performed to assess angiogenesis,
cell proliferation, epithelial thickness, and stromal regeneration using
markers such as CD31, PCNA, cytokeratin, collagen type I, and α-SMA.
Results: The histopathological evaluation showed a significant increase in
proliferation, epithelial thickness, and angiogenesis in the Alg-PRP group,
consistent with the functional results. Pregnancy rates were highest in the
Alg-PRP group (100%) compared to other treatment groups. In addition,
the number of pups in the Alg-PRP group was significantly higher than
those in the PBS and PRP groups (p<0.05). Based on the results of qRTPCR
analysis, it was determined that the expression levels of TGF-β and
MMP9 were significantly lower in the Alg-PRP group (p<0.01, p<0.0001,
respectively). This confirms the reduction of inflammation and fibrosis
in the Alg-PRP group.
Conclusion: This study demonstrated that alginate hydrogel embedded
with platelet-rich plasma (Alg-PRP) significantly enhances cervical
healing in a rat model of cervical injury. Due to its biocompatibility,
biodegradability, and effectiveness in promoting tissue regeneration, Alg-
PRP holds strong potential as a therapeutic option for treating cervical
injuries and improving reproductive outcomes.
O-091
Leveraging Host Omic-Response Signatures to Identify Microbiome
Metabolizers of Drugs: A Case Study of Tenofovir Metabolism by the
Vaginal Microbiome. Dali Nemecio†, Douglas Brubaker∗. Case Western
Reserve University, Cleveland Heights, OH, United States.
Introduction: In 2023 the World Health Organization reported globally
there were 38.9 million people living with HIV with 67% of these cases
in Sub-Saharan Africa. In 2022 the United Nations Program on HIV/
AIDS estimated approximately 63% of new infections disproportionality
occurred among sex birth females. A HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis drug
tenofovir (TV) is reported to have high efficacy in men who have sex with
men, however in sex birth females the reported effectivity varies from
49% - 79%. Previous studies suggest this phenomenon may be due to
suboptimal vaginal microbiomes metabolizing and depleting available
TV from the host. While a few microbes have been validated in vitro,
the metabolic status of most of the 28 common vaginal species remains
unknown.
Methods: In this project, we develop a support vector machine (SVM)
models to independently predict microbe metabolic capabilities of
TV using host-omic correlations to TV and vaginal microbiome
composition. The SVMs designated as Tv-Microbe-Host-Gene (Tv-
MHG) and Tv-Microbe-Host-Protein (Tv-MHP) are constructed using
transcriptomic and proteomic data respectively. The model pipeline
includes bootstrapping, preprocessing, feature selection with T-tests,
and training/testing using 10-fold cross-validation and 3-fold holdout
hyperparameter optimization. Additional steps are incorporated
to optimize classification and account for noise introduced by the
bootstrapping process. We develop an additional proteomic model by
applying iterative AIC on Tv-MHP features, reducing them to three
protein metrics.
Results: All three classifiers demonstrate high performance metrics
of precision, accuracy, recall specificity, with all reflecting ≥ 0.993. They
consistently agree on novel predictions of TV metabolizers, which
includes Fusobacterium nucleatum, Lactobacillus hamsteri, Atopobium
vaginae, and Bifidobacterium species. Additionally, the Tv-MHP-AIC
model was successfully created and contains three key protein features:
FUBP1, DLD, and PSMA3.
Conclusion: Tv-MHG, Tv-MHP and Tv-MHP-AIC all show potential
for clinical application, with Tv-MHP-AIC showing the most promise.
When compared to Tv-MHG and Tv-MHP, Tv-MHP-AIC requires a less
invasive sample collection method and only requires abundance metrics
of three proteins for reliable classification. This research supports our goal
of exploring principles for predicting microbial drug metabolism based
on insights from this TV case study. These principles could potentially be
extended to predict drug responses in any human microbiome.
O-092
Human Umbilical Cord Mesenchymal Stem Cell Derived Exosomes
Ameliorate Age-Related Decline in Testosterone by Inhibiting Leydig
Cell Apoptosis through Modulating PTEN and PI3K AKT Pathways in
a Naturally Aging Mouse Model. Farzana Liakath Ali†, Mervat Omran†,
Omer Raheem∗, Hang-Soo Park†, Mohammad Mousaei†, Ayman Al-
Hendy∗. University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Serum Testosterone (T) declines in men above 40 years
of age commonly known as late-onset hypogonadism or andropause. The
long-term effects of Testosterone Replacement Therapy (TRT) on major
cardiovascular events and prostate cancer risk remain controversial.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 79A
Friday Orals
The present study thus evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of exosomes
derived from human umbilical cordMSCs (hUCMSCExos) in endogenous
enhancement of T levels in a natural aging mouse model.
Methods: A total of 36 male C57BL/6 mice, aged 6 months (n=12) aged
9 months (n=12), and 24 months (n=12), were used in this natural aging
model study. In each age group, six mice were randomly divided into a
control group, and the rest were in an exosome therapy (Exos) group.
The mice in the Exos group received intra-testicular injections of 1.5
X109 exosomes twice, with a 7-day interval between injections. After
two weeks of exosome injections, mice were euthanized, and testicular
histology, immunohistochemistry, serum hormone analysis, electron
microscopy, (EM) molecular and protein, immunofluorescence, and bulk
RNA sequence analysis of hUCMSCExos were assessed. A one-way
ANOVA with a post hoc test with Bonferroni correction was used for
statistical analysis.
Results: The serum hormone analysis showed that the T levels in 6
(p<0.01), 9 (p<0.001), and 24-month (p<0.05) were significantly higher
compared to untreated controls. Testicular histology showed improved
morphology of Leydig cells along with increased Johnsen score. TUNEL
assay confirmed anti-apoptotic morphology in all three Exos-treated
groups. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence indicated
increased PCNA and Ki67 expression and EM showed improved
mitochondrial structure and number in the Exos group compared to
untreated controls, especially in the 9-month Exos group. Both molecular
and protein analysis confirmed the anti-apoptotic effects exerted by the
exosomes through the downregulation of PTEN and upregulation of PI3K/
AKT signaling pathways. The bulk RNA sequence analysis and microRNA
analysis of hUCMSCExos identified 183 miRNAs and the KEGG analysis
showed that the upregulation of MAPK and the notably miR215p was
significantly upregulated which is known to regulate the PTEN pathway.
Conclusion: Our work provides preliminary evidence and suggests
the regenerative potential of hUCMSC-derived exosomes in enhancing
endogenous T levels in a natural aging model through PTEN and
PI3K/AKT axis. There is a huge unmet need for an alternative to TRT
and exosomes could be a potential therapeutic agent for late-onset
hypogonadism or andropause shortly.
O-093
A Tunable Vaginal Extracellular Matrix Hydrogel for 3D Vaginal
Fibroblast Culture and Biofabrication. Morgan Egnot†,1 Marrisa
Therriault†,1 Zachary Miller†,1 Cecilia Schiavoni†,1 Nisha Shetty,2 Amanda
Artsen,2 Bryan N Brown, 1 Pamela Moalli∗.2 1University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, PA, United States; 2UPMC Magee-Womens Hospital, Pittsburgh,
PA, United States.
Introduction: Extracellular matrix derived hydrogels are useful for
reconstructive surgeries as they can be used to promote constructive wound
healing. We characterized the response of human vaginal fibroblasts to a
novel tunable 3D vaginal extracellular matrix (vECM) hydrogel.
Methods: For synthesis, vaginas from adult nulliparous pigs were
decellularized, lyophilized, milled, and digested in HCl-pepsin solution
for 48h. These pre-gels were lyophilized and reconstituted with water,
10X PBS, NaOH, and media containing a 6.25 million/mL single cell
suspension of primary human vaginal fibroblasts from premenopausal
patients (N = 3, IRB CR19080175). Gels (N=221) were reconstituted
to 5 or 10 mg/mL and cultured for 1, 7, or 14 days. Acellular gels
(N=205) were synthesized and treated identically. At each timepoint we
measured: contraction (diameter), surface architecture (SEM), collagen
I and glycosaminoglycans (GAG, colorimetric assay), DNA (Nanodrop),
collagen deposition and organization (picrosirus red - PSR), apoptosis
(caspase-3), and myofibroblast transformation (aSMA labeling). Acellular
gels were analyzed via rheometry, DC protein assay, load to failure
compression, mass spectrometry, and DNA electrophoresis. Statistics
entailed ANOVA or t test after confirming normality.
Results: Decellularization was confirmed by retention of vECM
components and reduction in intracellular proteins, DNA (p<0.0001), and
nuclei. Acellular gels did not contract. Rheometry showed an increase in
gel stiffness with increasing protein concentration (71.41 Pa for 5 mg/mL
and 212.45 Pa for 10 mg/mL, p<0.0001) but identical working (p=0.8) and
gelation time (p=0.8). 10 mg/mL gels had lower porosity (p=0.02) and fiber
diameter (p<0.0001) on SEM with no differences in compressive structural
stiffness (p=0.2). In gels with cells, myofibroblast presence increased over
time with 2.5X increase in density in 5 versus 10 mg/mL gels (p<0.001)
and minimal cell death. PSR showed increased collagen organization
in both concentrations over time, with the majority of fibers aligned in
the vertical plane (p<0.0001). Cells were visible among contracted gel
fibers on SEM micrographs. Cellularity increased over time. Collagen I
(p<0.0001) and GAG (p=0.0001) content (% dry weight) increased over
time with no differences between 5 and 10 mg/mL gels.
Conclusion: We created a vECM hydrogel with tunable structural and
mechanical properties that retains key matrix components. Varying
ECM concentration altered stiffness but not working and gelation time.
Introduced cells survived and readily modified the matrix by deposition
of new ECM components. This material has broad potential for
gynecologic applications ranging from atrophic vaginal repair to whole
organ biofabrication.
O-094
Phenotyping Adolescent Endometriosis: Characterizing Symptom
Heterogeneity Through Note- and Patient-Level Clustering. Rebecca
M Cohen†, Emily Leventhal†, Nivedita Nukavarapu†, Kimberly B Glazer,
Michal A Elovitz, Victoria Lazarov†, Sarriyah Hanif†, Ipek Ensari∗. Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United States.
Introduction: Pelvic pain (dysmenorrhea and non-menstrual) is the most
common presentation of adolescent endometriosis, but symptoms vary
between and within patients. Other presentations, such as gastrointestinal
(GI) symptoms, are often misattributed, leading to diagnostic delays.
Patients incur frequent primary and specialty care visits, generating
multiple and diverse clinical notes. These offer insights into disease
trajectory and symptom heterogeneity, which can be rigorously
investigated using clustering methods. This study aims to 1) evaluate
phenotypes using EHR notes and 2) compare two clustering models
(note- vs patient-level) for their ability to identify symptom patterns.
Methods: 7221 notes from 122 patients ages 13-19 with a SNOMED
endometriosis diagnosis were obtained from the Mount Sinai Data
Warehouse. A random sample of 695 notes from 26 patients was selected
for this proof-of-concept study and annotated with 13 disease-relevant
labels, including symptoms, hormone use, and medications. Four
model inputs—pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea, chronic pain, and GI—were
selected via principal component analysis and model fitting. We used
two unsupervised machine learning methods for note- vs patient-level
analyses: Partitioning Around Medoid (PAM) and Multivariate Mixture
Models (MGM).
Results: The PAM model identified k=3 clusters with average silhouette
width of 0.76, indicating strong between-cluster separation. Cluster 1
(76%) was distinct for absence of all 4 features ("feature absent”; abs).
Cluster 2 (8%; “classic” phenotype) exhibited pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea
and chronic pain. Cluster 3 (16%; “GI” phenotype) was dominated by
GI symptoms. The MGM identified k=2 stable patient-level clusters (Δ
weighted model deviance = -734 from k=2 to 3) matching the PAM-based
phenotypes (54% GI dominant; 46% classic phenotype) with high cluster
membership probability (mean probability = 0.96). PAM-based classic
phenotype had significantly higher rates of hormonal intervention (78%
vs 68% abs, 48% GI) and pain medication (71% vs 24% abs, 14% GI).
For the patient-level, classic phenotype also had higher rates for hormonal
(43% vs 30%) and pain (29% vs 10%) medications (p<0.01 for all).
Conclusion: Both methods captured classic and non-classic phenotypes,
with the note-level model uniquely identifying a “feature absent” group.
The classic phenotype's link to higher hormonal and pain intervention
underscores the importance of recognizing non-classic symptoms. This
study, the first to directly compare note- and patient-level clustering
of EHR notes in endometriosis, demonstrates the ability to detect the
less clinically recognizable phenotypes. This proof-of-concept can be
applied to larger datasets to refine phenotype identification, aiding in
earlier diagnosis.
80A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
O-095
Cardiopulmonary Hemodynamics in the Transition to Ex-Utero Life in
Preterm Growth Restricted Lambs. Beth J Allison,1,2 Mikee Inocencio,1
Valerie Zahrah,1 Amy Sutherland,1 Beth R Piscopo†,1,2 Matthew Oyang†,1
Stuart B Hooper,1 Graeme R Polglase,1,2 Suzie L Miller.1,2 1Hudson Institute
of Medical Research, Clayton, Australia; 2Monash University, Clayton,
Australia.
Introduction: Fetal growth restriction (FGR) impairs cardiovascular
development in utero and is known to developmentally program for
lifelong cardiovascular dysfunction and disease. The transition to ex utero
life is a period of significant cardiovascular hemodynamic change, with
risks of additional insults such as birth asphyxia. FGR fetuses have also
been shown to have a poorer cardiovascular responses to birth asphyxia
compared to appropriately-grown neonates, however the reasons for this
are poorly understood. The unique cardiovascular physiology in FGR may
prevent mounting of a protective cardiovascular response to asphyxia.
We aimed to compare the cardiovascular hemodynamics throughout the
transition to ex utero life, with and without birth asphyxia.
Methods: Fetal sheep underwent sterile surgery for single umbilical artery
ligation (FGR, n=30) or sham (control, n=32) surgery (0.6 gestation)
to replicate early-onset FGR. At 0.85 gestation, fetuses underwent a
caesarean section for instrumentation with catheters and flow probes.
Cardiopulmonary parameters were continuously assessed before, during
and after the transition to birth after which lambs were mechanically
ventilated. Lambs were subdivided into cohorts exposed control or
birth asphyxia. Analysis was conducted throughout fetal baseline, cord
clamping, and initiation of ventilation. Additional analysis included
assessment of cerebral auto regulation and metabolic profile.
Results: FGR lambs demonstrated unique cardiovascular phenotype to
the transition at birth and birth asphyxia. Blood pressure was significantly
lower (p=0.0032) in FGR lambs exposed to asphyxia, but not in any other
groups. Contractility was significantly reduced in FGR lambs throughout
the transition (dP/dT Max (p=0.0306)) and significantly elevated in FGR
lambs exposed to asphyxia (p=0.02). All FGR groups show key changes
were in blood flow to the brain compared to controls. Carotid blood flow
(CaBF), corrected for brain weight, was significantly (p=0.0004) lower
in FGR lambs compared to controls. Further, during ventilation initiation,
FGR lambs had significantly lower diastolic pulmonary blood flow
(FGR:-0.7 +/- 0.3ml.min.g vs control:0.01 +/- 0.4ml.min.g) compared
to control lambs. Femoral blood flow were not different between groups.
FGR lambs had evidence of cerebral auto dysregulation and an altered
metabolic profile compared to control lambs.
Conclusion: Preterm FGR lambs have a distinct cardiovascular response
to secondary insults including the transition at birth and more significant
insults such as birth asphyxia. The findings underscore the complexities
of cardiovascular function in those born FGR, and show fundamental
differences from the cellular to systems physiology level.
O-096
Inhibiting miR-142-5p Mitigates Fetal Cardiac Dysfunction in a
Mouse Model of Maternal Obesity. Gabrielle K Crombie†,1 Daniel J
Stuckey,1 Makrina D Savvidou,2 Owen R Vaughan∗.1 1UCL, London, United
Kingdom; 2Chelsea & Westminster Hospital, London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Maternal obesity is associated with fetal cardiac
dysfunction and offspring cardiovascular disease risk. We previously
showed that maternal diet-induced obesity (DIO) causes left ventricle
(LV) hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction in mouse fetuses (Crombie
et al., SRI: Reprod. Sci. 31, 2024). miR-142-5p is upregulated in the fetal
circulation in pregnant women with obesity and is associated with cardiac
hypertrophy (Sharma et al., EMBO Mol. Med. 4, 2012). We hypothesised
that inhibition of miR-142-5p normalises fetal cardiac function in pregnant
mice with diet-induced obesity.
Methods: Maternal DIO was achieved by feeding C57BL/6 mice ad lib
with 41% fat diet and 20% sucrose solution pre-conception and during
pregnancy. A subset of DIO dams were given a locked nucleic acid antimiR-
42-5p i.v. at embryonic day (E)14.5 (term~E20). Control (CON)
dams had ad lib access to 11% fat diet. Separately, dams fed standard
chow received either saline, a non-targeting anti-miR (SCR) or anti-miR-
142-5p. Fetal echocardiography was conducted (3/litter) with Vevo 3100
ultra-high frequency ultrasound (VisualSonics) at E18.5 under anaesthesia
(2% isoflurane in 1L/min O2). LV dimensions and the mitral valve E/A
ratio (MV E/A) were measured. Relative expression of Pten, a confirmed
mRNA target of miR-142-5p, was determined using qPCR. Data were
analysed using one-way ANOVA with P<0.05 considered significant for
comparisons between CON (n=21), DIO (n=23) and DIO+anti-miR-142-
5p (n=18) groups; or saline (n=11), SCR (n=19) and anti-miR-142-5p
(n=12) groups. Data is presented as % change.
Results: Maternal DIO increased fetal LV relative wall thickness (+30%,
P=0.017), reduced LV volume (-24%, P=0.009) and caused diastolic
dysfunction, characterised by a decrease in MV E/A (-18%, P=0.046).
Inhibiting miR-142-5p in the DIO animals reduced LV relative wall
thickness back to CON levels (-30% compared to DIO alone, P=0.022)
and tended to increase LV volume (+12%, P>0.05) such that they were
similar to CON. MV E/A was also normalised to CON level with miR-
142-5p inhibition (+24%, P=0.034). In dams fed standard chow, there
were no significant differences in fetal LV wall thickness or volume
between anti-miR-142-5p or SCR injected animals, compared to saline.
MV E/A increased following anti-miR-142-5p treatment (+31%, P=0.007)
and trended with SCR (+22%, P>0.05). Anti-mir-142-5p increased fetal
cardiac relative expression of Pten (+91%, P=0.0001) compared to saline
or SCR treatment, confirming successful knockdown of the target miRNA.
Conclusion: Inhibiting miR-142-5p normalises fetal cardiac function in
pregnant mice with diet-induced obesity. Increased fetal circulating miR-
142-5p may mechanistically underpin the link between maternal obesity
and life-long cardiovascular risk programmed in utero.
O-097
Sex Specific Differences in Developmental Programming of the
Guinea Pig Near-Term Fetal Kidney with Growth Restriction, and
the Influence of Placenta Gene Therapy. Rebecca Wilson∗, Baylea
Davenport, Helen Jones. University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United
States.
Introduction: Fetal development in a compromised intrauterine
environment is associated with increased risk of hypertension and
cardiovascular disease in later life. Prenatal perturbation significantly
alters renal development, contributing to increased cardiovascular disease
risk. We assessed prenatal kidney development and function in near-term
growth restricted guinea pig fetuses following treatment with placenta
gene therapy. We hypothesized that improving placenta efficiency and
increasing fetal weight would improve aberrant mechanisms of blood
pressure and fluid homeostasis (renin-angiotensin system; RAS) and
tissue remodeling.
Methods: Female Hartley guinea pigs (dams) were fed either an ad libitum
diet (control n=6) or a restricted diet (MNR n = 11) at 70% by weight of
control 4 weeks prior to pregnancy until GD30 and then 90% by weight
of control until sacrifice. Ultrasound guided, transcutaneous, intraplacental
injection of nanoparticles + human IGF1 (MNR + NP-Cyp19a-hIGF1: n
= 5) or sham (nanoparticles + antisense plasmid; control = 6 and MNR
= 6) was performed every 8 days from GD36±3. Dams and fetuses were
sacrificed at GD60±3. Fetal plasma was analyzed for blood urea nitrogen
(BUN) and creatinine. Fetal kidney tissue was dissected and processed
for gene expression analysis of RAS and pro-fibrosis factors. Female
and male fetuses were analysed separately using generalized estimating
equations that included diet, gene therapy, gestational day and litter size.
Statistical significance was considered at P≤0.05.
Results: In female fetuses, plasma BUN was increased in the sham MNR
group compared to sham control (40%, p<0.001) but reduced to sham
control levels in the MNR + NP-Cyp19-hIGF1 group. In male fetuses,
plasma creatinine was reduced in the sham MNR group compared
to sham control (27%, p<0.001) but restored to control levels in the
MNR + NP-Cyp19-hIGF1. Renal gene expression also demonstrated
sexual dimorphism. In female but not male fetuses, gene expression
of Transforming Growth Factor beta (Tgfb; 42%, p=0.017), Matrix
Metallopeptidase 2 (Mmp2; 2-fold, p=0.011) and TIMP metallopeptidase
inhibitor 1 (Timp1; 95%, p=0.002) was increased in sham MNR compared
to sham control but in the MNR + NP-Cyp19-hIGF1 group Tgfb and
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 81A
Friday Orals
Mmp2. However, in both sexes Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (Ace)
expression was reduced in the sham MNR group (female 27%, p=0.048;
male 37%, p=0.050) compared to sham control, but comparable between
MNR + NP-Cyp19-hIGF1 and sham control.
Conclusion: We have shown placenta hIGF1 gene therapy, and the
associated improved fetal growth can indirectly modify fetal kidney
developmental programming and function in MNR. Impacts were sexually
dimorphic, revealing distinct responses between female and male fetuses
to in utero adversity.
O-098
Deleting the RPS6KB1 Gene Encoding the Kinase p70S6K1 Ameliorates
Congenital Heart Defects in Diabetic Pregnancy. Mohammad Sazzadul
Islam†, Md Masud Rana†, Wei-Bin Shen∗, Montasir Elahi†, E Albert
Reece∗, Peixin Yang∗. University of Maryland, Baltimore, Baltimore,
MD, United States.
Introduction: The pathophysiological role of the oxidative stressresponsive
p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) in diabetes and
heart diseases has been described. We have previously shown that deleting
the RPS6KB1 gene encoding the kinase p70S6K1 alleviates maternal
diabetes-induced neural tube defects (NTD). Because structural birth
defects induced by maternal diabetes may share the same mechanism,
we aim to investigate the role of S6K1 in diabetes-induced congenital
heart defects (CHD). Our previous report showed that streptozotocin
(STZ)-induced type 1 diabetes in female mice inhibited autophagy,
increased apoptosis, and triggered endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress
in the neuroepithelium of embryos, leading to NTD formation. In the
current study, we demonstrated that S6K1 activation contributed to
CHD formation in diabetic pregnancy and deleting the RPS6KB1 gene
ameliorated maternal diabetes-induced CHD.
Methods: Pre-gestational diabetes (blood glucose > 250 mg/dl) was
created by two consecutive STZ injections (65mg/kg body weight).
Nondiabetic and diabetic female RPS6KB1 heterogeneous knockout
(designated as S6K1+/-) mice were bred withS6K1+/- nondiabetic males
to generatewild-type (WT), S6K1+/- and S6K1-/- (homozygous deletion)
embryos. CHD incidences were assessed at embryonic day 17.5 (E17.5)
by morphological examination of the two big vessels and followed by
H& E staining in embryonic heart sections. Biochemical analysis was
carried out using western blotting and immunofluorescence staining in
E12.5 embryonic heart, a critical time point before cardiac morphogenesis
is completed in E13.5.
Results: WT embryos showed a CHD rate of 40% in diabetic pregnancy
and S6K1-/-embryos had an 0% CHD. Maternal diabetes-induced
phosphorylation of S6K1 was blunted in hearts of S6K1-/- embryos. In
addition, maternal diabetes-induced caspase-dependent apoptosis was
reduced to the basal level in hearts of S6K1-/- embryos.S6K1-/- embryonic
cardiomyocytes showed an increased number of LC3 puncta as an index
of autophagy compared to those from WT embryos in diabetic pregnancy.
Moreover, S6K1-/- significantly reduced the number of TUNNEL positive
cells in diabetic conditions.
Conclusion: Collectively, this study elucidated the pathophysiological
role of p70S6K1 in the induction of CHD in diabetic pregnancy.
O-099
Altered DNA Methylation Profiles in Neonatal Blood Following
Exposure to Maternal Depression in Early Gestation. Bona Kim†,
Stephen G Matthews∗. University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Introduction: Maternal depression or anxiety affects approximately
25% of individuals during pregnancy. Prenatal maternal stress has been
shown to increase risk of cardiometabolic disorders, immune dysfunction
and cognitive impairments in children, yet the mechanisms that underlie
these changes are not known. We have previously shown that prenatal
exposure to antenatal corticosteroid (ACS) therapy results in epigenetic
signatures in neonatal blood. In the present study, we hypothesized that
maternal depression in early pregnancy results in similar signatures in
neonatal blood.
Methods: Mother-infant dyads were identified through the Ontario Birth
Study, an open pregnancy cohort at Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto. Case
infants (n=21), whose mothers reported symptoms of depression (4-item
Patient Health Questionnaire; PHQ≥3) at 12-16weeks gestation were
matched to controls based on maternal age, maternal BMI, fetal sex and
parity. Exclusion criteria included exposure to ACS, maternal psychiatric
diagnoses other than depression or anxiety, and maternal BMI≥30.
gDNA from blood spot cards collected at neonatal screening was used
to perform reduced representation bisulfite sequencing. Sequences were
aligned to the human genome and analyzed using Radmeth to identify
differentially methylated CpG sites (DMCs) between case and control
infants. Transcription factor binding site (TFBS) analysis was performed
using MEMESuite.
Results: A total of 488 DMCs (depth≥10x; FDR≤0.05), annotated to
105 genes (CompEpiTools) were identified in neonatal blood following
high maternal depression scores in early gestation. Genes examined
using GeneCards were associated with cell proliferation and migration,
immune regulation and neurite outgrowth. The top two differentially
methylated genes, SH3PXD2A (avg -45.76%) and CHST1 (43.08%) were
also previously identified following ACS exposure. Similarly, TFBS for
SP1, PLAGL1, TFAP2, and EGR1, involved in cell proliferation and
stress response, were differentially methylated in both ACS and maternal
depression studies. Unique to maternal depression were DMCs at the
TFBS for HES factors, which are involved in neuronal differentiation,
inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.
Conclusion: Exposure to maternal depression in early gestation affects
DNA methylation patterns in the peripheral blood of term-born neonates.
Multiple genes and TFBS identified have been previously observed in
neonatal blood following ACS exposure, suggesting that glucocorticoidmediated
pathways may underlie the long-term programming effects
following exposure to maternal depression. The establishment of a specific
DNA methylation signature of maternal depression may help in early
identification of infants at highest risk of neurodevelopmental sequalae
and for whom early treatment is most effective.
O-100
Male but Not Female Offspring from a Rat Model of Preeclampsia
Have Worse Stroke Outcome That Was Prevented by Low-Dose
Aspirin Treatment of Dams during Pregnancy. Marilyn Jo Cipolla∗,
Sarah Tremble∗. University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, United States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is not just a disease of pregnancy,
but has far reaching effects including increasing the risk of death from
stroke in offspring. We hypothesized that offspring from a model of
experimental PE (ePE-F1) would have worse outcome from ischemic
stroke compared to offspring from normal pregnant dams (NormP-F1).
We further hypothesized that low-dose aspirin treatment of ePE dams
during pregnancy would have a beneficial effect on ePE-F1 offspring and
improve outcome from stroke.
Methods: ePE was induced by feeding pregnant Sprague Dawley rats a
high cholesterol diet starting on day 7 of pregnancy. A separate group of
ePE dams was given 1.5 mg/kg/day aspirin in rat dough starting on day 7
of pregnancy. NormP dams were given standard rat chow. Male and female
offspring were studied at 12-25 weeks of age. Focal stroke was induced
by filament occlusion of the MCA for 3 hours with 1 hour of reperfusion.
Changes in cerebral blood flow were measured by laser Doppler to confirm
stroke. Infarct and edema were measured by TTC, a vital dye. Body
weights and non-fasting blood glucose were also measured.
Results: Stroke outcomes were significantly worse in ePE-F1 males vs.
NormP-F1 males. % infarction and edema in ePE-F1 males vs. Norm
P-F1 males was 48±6% vs. 11±4% (p<0.01) and 9±1% vs. 3±0.5%
(p<0.01). Aspirin treatment of ePE dams partially prevented the increased
infarction and completely prevented increased edema in ePE+asp-F1 male
offspring: 28±9% infarction (p=0.260 vs. ePE-F1 males) and 4±0.6%
edema (p<0.01 vs. ePE-F1 males). All female groups had less infarct
and edema than males that was similar between groups and not affected
by aspirin treatment. For female ePE-F1, NormP-F1 and ePE+asp-F1,
% Infarct: 9±1%, 5±2%, and 8±3% (p>0.05) and % edema: 4±0.6%,
4±0.4%, and 3±0.5% (p>0.05). Importantly, 100% of ePE-F1 males and
63% of ePE-F1 females had hemorrhagic transformation (bleeding within
the infarct) that was improved by aspirin treatment of dams, decreasing
82A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
the incidence to only 67% of ePE+asp-F1 males and 28% of ePE+asp-F1
females. Body weights were lower in ePE-F1 females, but not males, that
was completely prevented by aspirin treatment of dams. Blood glucose
was higher in both male and female ePE offspring vs. NormP-F1's that
was prevented by aspirin treatment of dams only in females.
Conclusion: These results suggest an adverse intrauterine environment
in ePE dams had a profound negative impact on male offspring that
caused severe stroke injury in adult life. Aspirin treatment of ePE dams
prevented some of the detrimental effects of ePE on both male and female
offspring, suggesting aspirin improved the intrauterine environment
during development that was beneficial to offspring as adults. Both the
cause of sexual dimorphism on stroke outcome and the mechanism by
which aspirin treatment was beneficial in ePE offspring are not clear and
warrants further investigation.
O-101
Synthetic Hydrogel Co-Culture Platform Reveals Crosstalk Between
Endometrial Epithelial-Stromal Cells via Transforming Growth
Factor Beta 2. Andrew Z Ding†, Heather George, Shu-Wing Ng, Linda G
Griffith∗, Douglas A Lauffenburger∗. Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA, United States.
Introduction: Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), particularly MMP7,
play a crucial role in endometrial tissue remodeling, with expression
varying across the menstrual cycle. MMP7 is abundant in proliferative,
late secretory, and menstrual phases but absent during early to midsecretory
phases. Previous in vitro studies suggest that transforming
growth factor beta (TGF-β) produced by endometrial stromal cells (ESCs)
inhibits epithelial MMP7 secretion. However, 3D Matrigel cultures
contain endogenous TGF-β, necessitating the use of non-physiological
inhibitors such as A83-01, which can obscure physiological interactions.
We hypothesized that a synthetic extracellular matrix (ECM) platform
could eliminate the need for A83-01 and enable the study of endogenous
TGF-β-mediated crosstalk between ESCs and endometrial epithelial
organoids (EEOs).
Methods: Matched primary patient-derived ESCs and EEOs were
separately expanded before seeding into 3D co-culture within synthetic
hydrogel droplets (n=25). Cultures were maintained with or without A83-
01 and supplemented with 10 nM estradiol (E2) from Day 2 to simulate
the proliferative phase. On Day 4, cultures either continued with 10 nM
E2 or transitioned to EPC cocktail (10 nM E2, 1 μM progesterone, 500
ng/μL cAMP) to induce the proliferative-to-secretory transition. MMP7,
TGF-β2, prolactin, and TGF-β1 levels were quantified from media samples
on Days 4 and 6 using ELISA. Cultures were fixed and immunostained
(IF) on Day 8 to assess viability, hormone responsiveness, and cell identity,
with morphology monitored via daily imaging. Statistical significance and
effect sizes were evaluated using linear models and non-parametric tests.
Results: Co-cultures in synthetic ECM without A83-01 showed
significantly lower MMP7 secretion after EPC stimulation compared to
those with A83-01 (p < 0.001), replicating in vivo MMP7 suppression in
the proliferative-to-secretory transition. TGF-β2 levels increased more
in EPC-treated co-cultures than E2-only (p < 0.05), with no significant
TGF-β1 production, confirming TGF-β2 specificity. Both A83-01-treated
and untreated co-cultures retained markers of hormone responsiveness
(prolactin secretion in response to EPC), cell identity (CD10, vimentin,
EpCAM), and viability (LIVE/DEAD). EEO proliferation was
significantly reduced with A83-01, consistent with the inhibitory effects
of TGF-β2 on epithelial growth reported in the literature.
Conclusion: Our synthetic ECM co-culture platform provides precise
control of the cellular microenvironment, eliminating the need for nonphysiological
inhibitors and offering a superior alternative to Matrigel
for studying endometrial signaling dynamics.
O-102
Human Blastocyst Invasion in a 3D In Vitro Endometrial Model. María
Pardo-Figuerez∗. Carlos Simon Foundation-INCLIVA Health Research
Institute, Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: The invasion of the blastocyst into the endometrial
decidua is a complex process requiring advanced 3D model systems
to facilitate its understanding. Our group has developed an in vitro 3D
model that replicates the morphological and functional characteristics of
the endometrium, enabling the study of early embryo invasion through
an automated injection system. Our goal is to gain deeper insights into
the factors contributing to successful implantation and to elucidate the
mechanisms controlling embryo invasion.
Methods: Endometrial stromal cell cultures and endometrial epithelium
organoids were obtained from freshly collected biopsies as previously
described (PMID: 37735465). These cells were passaged and cultured in a
Matrigel and collagen gel mixture for 7 days. Hormonal supplementation
with estradiol (E2) was applied for 3 days, followed by decidualization
media containing cAMP, MPA, and E2 for an additional 4 days. On the
7th day, human blastocysts (D5-D6), approved by CNRHA (2023-098),
were automatically injected into the model. Post-implantation remodeling
was analyzed over 1-3 days using time-lapse imaging. The invasion
process was examined through live imaging (Confocal STELLARIS 5)
and biochemical markers such as HCG and GATA3.
Results: The 3D model demonstrated the formation of a lumen-like
structure with ciliated epithelial cells, identified by acetylated tubulin, in
the outer regions, suggesting active migration of epithelial cells toward
the periphery. In the inner regions, the epithelial morphology resembled
glandular structures characterized by e-cadherin expression, while stromal
cells were identified using vimentin. Stromal decidualization markers
(IGFBP1, PAEP) were significantly upregulated following hormonal
treatment, closely mimicking the physiological process of endometrial
decidualization. Human blastocysts were injected approximately 2-3 mm
into the stromal region beneath the lumen-like epithelium. Blastocyst
morphology before and after injection showed no damage, remaining
viable throughout the automated injection. Confocal live imaging detected
embryo development up to 24 hours post-injection. The secretion of hCG
(10 mIU/ml) after blastocyst injection indicated that the embryo was viable
and could initiate the first stages of trophoblast differentiation.
Conclusion: Our findings demonstrate that combining our 3D endometrial
model with automated blastocyst injection offers a powerful platform for
studying the early stages of human embryo invasion. This model provides a
novel approach to investigate the mechanisms underpinning implantation,
shedding light on crucial aspects of reproductive biology.
O-103
Serial Intravascular Labeling Highlights Tissue Residency Alterations
in Trafficking NK Cells during Pregnancy. Mona A Mohamed†, Jessica
Vazquez, Fernanda Leyva Jaimes, Aleksandar K Stanic∗. University of
Wisconsin- Madison, Madison, WI, United States.
Introduction: Natural killer (NK) cells have been implicated in important
processes during pregnancy, including spiral artery remodeling. Although
research has advanced our understanding of the decidual immunome,
the intricate movement of NK cells from and into the decidua during
pregnancy remains poorly understood. Here, we utilize intravascular
labeling to elucidate the movement of NK cells and changes in associated
tissue residency markers and chemokine receptors across murine
pregnancy.
Methods: Non-pregnant and pregnant C57BL6/J mice at gestational day
(gd) 7-8, gd 12-14, and gd 16-18 were tail-vein injected with 6.7 μg of
αCD45 AF488-conjugated antibody 24 hours and 6.7 μg of αCD45 AF647-
conjugated antibody 5 minutes prior to sacrifice. Decidual mononuclear
cells (MCs) were isolated through mechanical (GentleMACS) and
enzymatic (collagenase/DNAse) disruption. To identify all leukocytes,
MCs were labeled with an additional αCD45 (APC/Fire810) and known
markers for B, T, and NK (defined as NK1.1+CD49b+) cells. Data
acquisition was performed using the Cytek Aurora spectral cytometer,
unmixed in SpectroFlo (v3.2.1), and analyzed in FlowJo (v10.10). The
vascular status of all CD45-APC/Fire810+ leukocytes was classified as
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 83A
Friday Orals
continuously circulating (CC), recent emigrant (RE) from tissue to blood,
recent immigrant (RI) from blood to tissue, or unlabeled cells as tissue
localized (TL) (Potter et al., STM, 2021).
Results: Serial intravascular labeling revealed that the predominant
phenotype of CC NK cells was CD49a⁻, CD69⁻, and CD103⁻ (p =0.0039)
at early gestation. By mid-gestation, CD49a+ population significantly
increases (p = 0.005). Interestingly, we find a decrease in the proportion
of CD69+CD103+ amongst these CD49a+ CC NK cells at the same
gestational timepoint (p < 0.0001), indicating some potential for tissue
adhesion. In early and late gestation, most RI NK cells are CD49a-CD69-
CD103-CXCR6- , while in mid-gestation there is a transient increase
of the alternative phenotype (CD49a+CD69+CD103+CXCR6+) (p =
0.008). Finally, among TL NK cells, we find an increase in the proportion
of CD69+CD103+ NK cells at mid-gestation (p = 0.0028), despite a
decrease in the proportion of CD49a+ (p = 0.001). This indicates that
TL NK cells prioritize retention within tissues and develop a specialized
capacity to interact with epithelial components via CD103, rather than
collagen via CD49a.
Conclusion: Serial intravascular labeling provides a promising approach
for advancing our understanding of the chemotactic mechanisms that
regulate NK cell trafficking. This method could help uncover the molecular
drivers of NK cell migration and retention, offering new avenues for
exploring immune modulation in pregnancy and related complications.
O-104
Analysis of Endometrial Receptivity via the Transcriptional Profile
of Uterine Fluid-Derived Extracellular Vesicles (UF-EV) of Infertile
Women. Claudia Ferraro,1 Elisa Giacomini,2 Valentina Pavone,3 Maíra
Casalechi†,1 Marco Reschini∗,1 Vittoria Sterpi,1 Valeria Stella Vanni,2
Carola Patruno,4 Giulia Maria Scotti,2 Dejan Lazarevic,2 Michela Riba,2
Paola Viganò∗.1 1Fondazione IRCCS Ca’ Granda Ospedale Maggiore
Policlinico, Milano, Italy; 2IRCCS Ospedale San Raffaele, Milano, Italy;
3IRCCSOspedale San Raffaele, Milano, Italy; 4IRCCS Ospedale San
Rafaelle, Milano, Italy.
Introduction: In in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatments, a key factor for
successful embryo transfer (ET) is the endometrial receptivity to the
embryo. Recent methods for its identification rely on the results from an
algorism based on a panel of genes expressed in an endometrial biopsy,
an invasive procedure that lacks sufficient accuracy. Recently, genomic
analysis of UF-EVs, considered a non-invasive liquid biopsy, has been
proposed as an alternative approach. Few studies have yet evaluated the
correlation between UF-EV transcriptomic profile and ET outcomes.
This study aimed to compare the UF-EV transcriptomic profile in women
undergoing IVF achieving or not a clinical pregnancy.
Methods: This is a prospective cohort study that enrolled 48 infertile
women (<40yo) undergoing their first ET following IVF. Endometrial
fluid collection was performed 7 days after the LH surge, one menstrual
cycle prior to ET. The molecular profile of UF-EVs was analysed, and
EV-derived RNA was subjected to RNA-seq. Differential gene expression
was then correlated with the achievement of clinical pregnancy.
Results: Of the 48 women enrolled, 19 (40%) achieved clinical
pregnancy. A total of 15,229 genes were expressed across all samples,
defined as those with at least 1 count per million (CPM) reads in at least
19 samples. Despite clustering and PCA of all expressed genes, and
the top 5,000 and 500 most variable ones, indicated no clear separation
between pregnancy (PG) and non-pregnancy (NPG) groups, DGE analysis
identified 184 up- and 3 down-regulated genes in PG compared to NPG.
Gene ontology analysis showed that PG had enriched genes in protein
localization, translation initiation, and RNA catabolism, with reduced
processes in cellular maintenance and amyloid-beta clearance. Cellular
component analysis highlighted enrichment in ribosomes, respiratory
chain, mitochondrial membrane, and protein complexes, while molecular
function analysis showed enrichment in ribosomes and translation factors,
with reduced transmembrane transporter activity.
Conclusion: IVF patients achieving PG showed differences in the UFEVs
transcriptome compared to NPG patients. Many differently regulated
genes are known to play roles in endometrial receptivity and have shown
transcriptional changes during the window of implantation. Thus, the
UF-EVs may be considered a valuable non-invasive diagnostic test for
endometrial receptivity, potentially replacing endometrial biopsy.
Funding: Italian Ministry of Health - Ricerca Finalizzata (RF-2019-
12369460)
O-105
Novel Endometrium Receptivity Markers Revealed by Integrated
Bulk and Single-Cell RNA Sequencing. Manisha D Persaud†,1 Gregory
W Burns,2 Emmanuel N Paul,2 Qingshi Zhao,1 Jessica Garcia De Paredes,1
Ripla Arora,2 Nataki C Douglas,1 Anat Chemerinski.1 1Rutgers New Jersey
Medical School, Newark, NJ, United States; 2Michigan State University,
Grand Rapids, MI, United States.
Introduction: Embryo implantation relies on the development of a
receptive endometrium during the secretory phase of the menstrual cycle.
Prior studies have attempted to define the window of embryo implantation
within the secretory phase based on patterns of differentially expressed
genes (DEGs), but consensus surrounding this signature has not been
achieved. We aim to examine the cell types that characterize the purported
receptivity signature and identify new transcriptomic markers that define
the mid-secretory endometrium through integrated bulk and single-cell
(sc) RNA sequencing.
Methods: Endometrial biopsies were collected from Black and Hispanic
fertile women aged 23-41 years old (mean BMI 32.9, n = 30) with regular,
ovulatory cycles. Biopsies in the early-, mid- or late-secretory phase were
timed according to urinary LH surge and confirmed using serum hormones
and endometrial histology. Live cells were isolated from endometrial
tissues (n = 11) and submitted for scRNA-seq analysis using the 10X
Genomics Chromium platform. A Uniform Manifold Approximation
and Projection plot was generated, and cell clusters were assigned using
canonical marker genes. Total RNA was isolated from endometrial
biopsies (n = 26) and submitted for library preparation and bulk RNA-seq.
Results: Eighteen distinct cell clusters were identified by scRNA-seq
analysis. The endometrial receptivity analysis (ERA), used to identify a
receptive endometrium based on expression of 238 genes, was used to
uncover cell clusters with increased expression of ERA genes. Highest
expression of ERA genes was found in the glandular epithelium (GE)
cell cluster in the mid- and late-secretory stages. When comparing the
early- to mid-secretory phases, there were 11,332 DEGs (2,512 up- and
8,820 down-regulated genes). In the mid- to late-secretory phases,
there were 7,671 DEGs (4,213 up- and 3,458 down-regulated genes).
Given the greater accessibility of bulk RNA-seq in clinical settings,
the newly identified DEGs were overlapped with bulk RNA-seq data
from endometrial biopsies. We identified 1,672 (mid- vs early-) and 169
(mid- vs late- secretory) new genes as differentially expressed in the
same direction in both the sc and bulk. In the GE, 374 genes increased
from early- to mid-secretory and decreased in late-secretory phase and
were considered as potential receptivity markers. 132 were categorized
as secretory, based on extracellular localization. Importantly, 106 of
these genes were not included in the ERA and may be new markers of a
receptive, mid-secretory endometrium.
Conclusion: Using scRNA-seq, we found the GE to be the cell type
driving the purported receptivity signature and have identified novel
genes encoding secretory proteins as candidate markers of receptivity.
O-106
Dynamic Uterine Fluid Absorption Regulated by Uterine Epithelial
ERα and PR during Early Pregnancy. Xiaoqin Ye∗, Jonathan Hancock†,
Taylor E Martin†, Yuehuan Li†, Venkata Atluri†, Jackson Sundgren†.
University of Georgia, Athens, GA, United States.
Introduction: Fluid volume in the uterine lumen fluctuates. During
early pregnancy, uterine fluid volume starts at a high level to facilitate
sperm passage to the oviduct/fallopian tube for fertilization and is
followed by a continuous reduction to a minimal level, which facilitates
the attachment of a competent embryo to the uterine luminal epithelium
(LE) for embryo implantation initiation. In in vitro fertilization-embryo
transfer (IVF-ET), delayed uterine fluid absorption or abnormal uterine
fluid retention is associated with impaired embryo implantation both in
84A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
animal models and women, but the mechanisms for uterine fluid regulation
in physiological conditions and dysregulation in pathological conditions
remain a significant knowledge gap. Uterine fluid movement is mainly
through the uterine epithelium. Because of the tight junctions in the
lateral LE plasma membrane to limit paracellular uterine fluid passage
and the limited capacity of water in diffusing through the LE plasma
membrane, transcellular uterine fluid movement (e.g., via ion channels
and endocytosis/exocytosis) becomes the dominant path.
Methods: We developed a novel method using intraluminally-injected
Alexa Hydrazide 488 (AH) in mice to detect uterine fluid absorption,
with fluorescent smear in a whole cell indicating bulk absorption via
ion channels and tiny dots in apical cytoplasm indicating endocytosis.
Results: There is a reduction of LE bulk absorption after day 0.5 postcoitum
(D0.5). Since estrogen-estrogen receptor alpha (ERα/Esr1)
signaling and progesterone-progesterone receptor (PR/Pgr) signaling
are essential for uterine functions during early pregnancy and uterine
epithelium serves as a gateway for uterine fluid movement, we hypothesize
that uterine epithelial ERα and PR play important roles in uterine fluid
regulation during early pregnancy. We are testing this hypothesis in
epiERα-/- (Esr1f/-Wnt7aCre/+) and epiPR-/- (Pgrf/-Wnt7aCre/+) mouse models
with conditional deletion of uterine epithelial ERα and PR, respectively.
Our mRNA-seq data from D0.5 @11h and D3.5 @11h Esr1f/- (control)
and epiERα-/- LE reveals differential expression of channels involved
in fluid movement. Intraluminal AH injection in D3.5 @17h and D4.5
@11h (implantation initiates ~D4.0) Pgrf/f & Pgrf/- (control) pregnant
uteri, but not epiPR-/- uteri, shows a novel phenomenon of resurgence of
LE bulk absorption.
Conclusion: These intriguing preliminary data support our hypothesis
and warrant continuous investigation into the molecular mechanisms
of temporal uterine fluid regulation in physiological and pathological
conditions, such as uterine fluid accumulation in some IVF-ET patients,
thus providing targets for developing therapeutics to treat fertility issues
associated with uterine fluid dysregulation.
O-107
Activin and FSTL3 Possess Opposing Actions Required for
Hemochorial Placentation. Mikaela E Simon†,1 Khursheed Iqbal,1
Ayelen Moreno-Irusta†,1 Regan L Scott†,1 Esteban M Dominguez†,1
Marija Kuna,1 Kaela M Varberg,1 Geetu Tuteja,2 Michael J Soares∗.1,1,3
1University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States;
2Iowa State University, Ames, IA, United States; 3Children’s Mercy Research
Intstitute, Kansas City, MO, United States.
Introduction: During pregnancy, the interaction between maternal and
extraembryonic cells at the uterine-placental interface (UPI) is crucial
for facilitating necessary adaptations for fetal growth and development.
Trophoblast stem (TS) cells are capable of differentiating into invasive
trophoblast cells, which contribute to the remodeling of uterine blood
vessels. Within the UPI, activin is a ligand that has been shown to affect the
proliferation and differentiation of trophoblast cells. Meanwhile, FSTL3
inhibits the actions of certain transforming growth factor beta cytokines,
including activin, by limiting receptor access. This study examines roles
of activin and FSTL3 in regulating trophoblast cell development and the
process of placentation.
Methods: We investigated the actions of activin with or without FSTL3
on human TS cell differentiation into extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cells.
FSTL3 was depleted in human TS cells using shRNAs. In vivo roles for
FSTL3 on placentation were investigated in a genome edited rat model.
Results: FSTL3 was expressed in the EVT cell column and within
syncytiotrophoblast of first-trimester human placentation sites. In vitro,
human TS cells showed a robust induction of FSTL3 expression following
differentiation into EVT cells. Activin inhibited TS cell differentiation into
EVT cells. Actions of activin were attenuated by FSTL3. In the rat, FSTL3
was prominently expressed in invasive trophoblast cells of the UPI and
within the labyrinth zone. Disruption of FSTL3 resulted in large cyst-like
structures in the junctional zone and was compatible with the initial phases
of invasive trophoblast cell differentiation within the junctional zone, but
not with intrauterine trophoblast cell invasion. Trophoblast cells failed
to enter the UPI or exhibited asymmetric distributions within the UPI.
Conclusion: In summary, activin signaling contributes to maintenance
of the trophoblast cell stem state. FSTL3 facilitates trophoblast
cell differentiation by suppressing the actions of activin, permitting
departure from the stem state and enabling trophoblast cell acquisition
of invasive properties essential for establishment of the UPI. Supported
by F31 predoctoral fellowships (HD113433, MES; HD104495, RLS),
Lalor Foundation postdoctoral fellowships (AMI, EMD), K99 award
(HD115834, AMI), R00 award (HD107262, KMV), R01 awards to GT and
MJS (HD020676, HD105734, HD112559), and the Sosland Foundation.
O-108
The Role of Estrogen in Regulating Placental Immune Function
in Non-Human Primates. Sahar Khoshravesh†, Anguo Liu∗, Jeffery
Babischkin∗, Graham W Aberdeen∗, Eugene D Albrecht∗, Jun Lei∗,
Irina Burd∗. University of Maryland, School of Medicine, Baltimore,
MD, United States.
Introduction: The placenta is vital for nutrient exchange, hormone
production, and immune responses in pregnancy. Estrogen, primarily
produced by the placenta after nine weeks, is essential for these functions.
However, its specific role in regulating placental immune responses
and sex differences is unclear. This study investigates estrogen’s effects
on placental immunity using a non-human primate model of estrogen
depletion.
Methods: Pregnant baboons were divided into three groups: untreated
(n=8), treated with letrozole (n=8, 115 μg/kg/day) from days 100 to
165 of gestation, or treated with letrozole plus estradiol benzoate (E2,
n=8). On day 165, placentas were collected via cesarean section, and
fetal and placental weights were recorded. Villous tissue was either
frozen or paraffin-embedded for immunohistochemical (IHC) staining
of markers: estrogen receptor alpha, Akr1c1 (progesterone deactivation),
Iba-1 (Hofbauer cell), CD68 (macrophage), CD3 (lymphocyte), and CD4
(lymphocyte). Expression levels were quantified using ImageJ, and data
were analyzed with One-Way ANOVA and Bonferroni post hoc tests.
Results: In letrozole-treated baboons, maternal serum E2 levels
decreased by 95% (p<0.01). Fetal weight was unchanged, but placental
weight increased by 24.07% (p<0.05), returning to near-control levels
with E2 (p<0.05). The fetal-to-placental weight ratio decreased by
15.54% (p<0.05) in the letrozole group and was restored with E2,
particularly in females (p<0.05). Immune array analysis showed elevated
CCL2 (p<0.05) and increased CD4 expression in the letrozole group.
Immunohistochemistry revealed a 30.9% reduction in ERα (p<0.05) and
a 21.34% decrease in Akr1c1, which returned to control levels with E2
(p<0.05). Iba-1 expression rose by 81.01% (p<0.05) in letrozole-treated
baboons and decreased by 61.40% with E2, particularly in females
(p<0.05). CD68 expression increased by 74.4% (p<0.05) in the letrozole
group and decreased by 51.8% with E2 (p<0.05), with more pronounced
effects in females. Co-expression studies confirmed Iba-1 and ERα in
placental tissue. Triple staining identified CD68+CD4+ macrophages and
CD4+CD3+ T-helper cells. CD4 expression increased by 71.3% (p<0.05)
in the letrozole group and returned to baseline with E2 (p<0.05), with no
significant differences in CD3+CD4+ T-helper cells.
Conclusion: This study underscores estrogen’s role in modulating
placental immune responses during estrogen depletion. Changes in
immune cell markers and chemokines indicate estrogen’s impact on
placental immunology, with increased pro-inflammatory markers and
immune cell populations, particularly in females. The co-expression of
Iba-1 and ERα in Hofbauer cells highlights a direct link between estrogen
signaling and placental macrophage activity, emphasizing the importance
of estrogen levels in immune responses.
O-109
Trophoblast Modulates Immune Responses Despite Simultaneous
AntiPDL1 Treatment. Jessica J. R. Jank†, Hannah Wein†, Damián O.
Muzzio, Marek Zygmunt∗. Universitätsmedizin Greifswald, Greifswald,
Germany.
Introduction: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) have been widely
implemented in current clinical practice. Although cancer occurs in ∼1 out
of 1,000 pregnancies, treatment remains challenging. The administration
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 85A
Friday Orals
of ICI during pregnancy has been associated with an increased incidence of
pregnancy complications, prematurity, and low birth weight and therefore
has been not recommended. However, current findings suggest that ICI
use during pregnancy may be better tolerated than previously suspected.
Placental tissue expresses high amounts of the immune checkpoint
molecule programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) and its soluble form,
sPD-L1. It has been proposed that PD-L1 may play a significant role in
promoting immune tolerance towards the embryo. This study investigates
the modulation of the immune system by trophoblasts during acute
infection and the influence of concurrent anti-PD-L1 treatment in vitro.
Methods: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were stimulated
with phytohemagglutinin (PHA) for 24 h. They were then co-cultured
with either trophoblast cell lines (JEG-3 or HTR-8/SVneo) or their
respective supernatants for 48 h, with or without the anti-PD-L1 antibody
Atezolizumab. PBMCs were then analyzed by flow cytometry to assess
their phenotype (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD14, CD19, CD56), activation
(CD69), cytokine production (IL-1β, IL-10, TNF-α) and NF-κB levels.
To further verify the results, PD-L1-deficient JEG-3 cells were generated
through CD274-knockout using CRISPR-Cas9. Successful knockout was
verified by PCR and Sanger sequencing. Co-cultures with PHA-stimulated
PBMCs were performed and cells were analyzed by flow cytometry. Data
were analyzed by ANOVA with Šidák correction or paired t-test. A P or
Padj value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Experiments
were performed with six biological replicates.
Results: The pro-inflammatory immune response was significantly
modified by trophoblasts, with direct cell-to-cell contact having a more
substantial influence than soluble mediators. Particularly in T cells, B cells,
and NK cells, CD69 expression and IL-10 production were increased.
IL-1β levels were decreased in T cells and NK cells but increased in B
cells. TNF-α production was reduced, especially in monocytes, B cells and
NK cells. NF-κB levels were significantly lowered across all populations.
The use of the antibody Atezolizumab had only a minor effect on all
investigated parameters. Co-cultures with CD274-knockout JEG-3 cells
also showed only a slight increase in immune cell activation compared
to PD-L1-expressing trophoblast cells.
Conclusion: Both JEG-3 and HTR-8/SVneo cells were able to induce
tolerogenic adaptations during acute inflammation. Since the influence
of PD-L1 and sPD-L1 appears to be relatively limited compared to other
factors, PD-L1-targeting anti-cancer therapies might be a viable option
when other treatments are not applicable.
O-110
PRMT1 Equipoises Epigenetic Regulation in Trophoblast Development
to Prevent Early Pregnancy Losses. Purbasa Dasgupta†, Rajnish Kumar∗,
Soma Ray∗, Namrata Roy∗, Asef Niloy∗, Soumen Paul∗. University of
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States.
Introduction: 1-3% of all implantation-confirmed conceptions suffer
from idiopathic recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL; defined as the loss of
two or more consecutive pregnancies). Idiopathic RPLs are devastating
to patients and a better understanding of underlying mechanisms is
necessary for better diagnosis, appropriate counseling, and development
of patient-specific treatment options. Here, using Idiopathic RPL tissues,
human trophoblast stem cells (human TSCs), and mutant mice, we show
that defective function of the epigenetic regulator; protein arginine methyl
transferase 1 (PRMT1), in trophoblast progenitors could be a molecular
cause leading to RPL.
Methods: We studied PRMT1 expression in placental tissues from
pregnancies associated with idiopathic RPL and established patientspecific
human TSCs to define the correlation of PRMT1 loss with
idiopathic RPL. We performed loss-of-PRMT1 function studies in
human TSCs and mouse embryos to define the importance of PRMT1
in trophoblast development. For mechanistic analyses, we performed
Cleavage Under Targets and Release Using Nuclease (CUT&RUN)-
sequencing to identify PRMT1 target genes in trophoblast progenitors.
We tested chromatin features including histone H4 arginine3-asymmetric
di-methylation (H4R3Me2a) and recruitment of RNA-Polymerase II on
the chromatin loci of PRMT1 target genes.
Results: We show that a subset of RPL is associated with defective
expression of PRMT1 cytotrophoblast progenitors (CTBs), leading to
defective placentation. Loss of Function studies indicated that PRMT1
is crucial for CTB progenitor self-renewal. We also show that PRMT1
is differentially expressed in extravillous trophoblasts (EVT) vs.
syncytiotrophoblasts (STBs) and influences the equilibrium between STB
and EVT development from CTBs. Remarkably, conditional knockout
of Prmt1 in trophoblast progenitors of a developing mouse placenta
primordium arrests embryonic development at ~E7.0, a developmental
stage equivalent to 1st trimester of human pregnancy. Mechanistically,
PRMT1 modulates transcription via H4R3me2a at the chromatin loci
of crucial trophoblast stem-state genes. Notably, diminished PRMT1
expression correlates with reduced expression of TEAD4 and TP63, which
are essential for CTB self-renewal.
Conclusion: Collectively, we provide evidence that PRMT1 is a
pivotal regulator of trophoblast stem cell maintenance and balancing
differentiation to STBs and EVTs, and posit that defective PRMT1
function in CTBs could be a molecular cause leading to RPL.
O-111
Derivation of Human Trophoblast Stem Cells from Term
Cytotrophoblasts. John W. Britt†, Mahe Jabeen†, Victoria Karakis†,
Adriana San Miguel∗, Balaji Rao∗. North Carolina State University,
Raleigh, NC, United States.
Introduction: The ability to derive trophoblast stem cells (hTSCs) from
first-trimester placentas and blastocyst-stage embryos has been a major
advance in trophoblast biology, allowing for more accurate in vitro models.
However, ethical and legal restrictions on the use of human embryos
or fetal tissue for research limit the number of hTSC lines available
and consequently their genetic diversity. A further limitation of hTSCs
derived from first-trimester placental tissues, obtained through elective
termination of pregnancy, is that the associated pregnancy outcome is
typically unknown
Methods: Trophoblast stem cells (TSCs) were isolated from term
placentas and cultured using trophoblast stem cell medium (TSCM;
Cell Stem Cell 2018 22(1):50-63.e6 c) supplemented with lipid-rich
albumin (1% AlbuMAX) and 50 nM UK-5099 (TUA). Subsequently,
cells were transferred to TSCM and cultured further. Term TSCs were
characterized to assess their differentiation potential in in vitro assays
and using RNA-seq.
Results: TSCs could be derived from term placentas in TUA medium and
cultured for multiple passages (25+). Notably, hTSCs could not be derived
from term CTBs using TSCM alone, or in the absence of either UK5099
or lipid-rich albumin. These term TSCs could be transferred to TSCM
(TSCM f. TUA) and thereafter be cultured for multiple passages. (25+).
Term TSCs in both TUA and TSCM f. TUA expresses undifferentiated
TSC markers (TEAD4, GATA3, TFAP2C) and can differentiate into
syncytiotrophoblast and extravillous trophoblast using established
protocols. Finally, term TSCs in TUA and TSCM f. TUA shows high
transcriptome similarity with TSCs derived from first-trimester placentas.
Conclusion: Here we demonstrate an easy and efficient way to derive
TSCs from term placentas. These results will enable facile derivation
of hTSCs from normal and pathological placentas at birth and enable
mechanistic studies that address critical knowledge gaps in our
understanding of human placental development.
O-112
Recapitulating Placental Development Through Co-Culture of Human
Trophoblast and Embryonic Stem Cells. Lishi Ma,1,2 Mark Kibschull∗,1
Stephen Lye∗.1,2,2 1Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Toronto, ON,
Canada; 2University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Introduction: The human placenta histologically consists of extensively
branching villi floating within maternal blood with a mesenchymal core
and two outer layers of trophoblasts, the inner cytotrophoblasts (CT)
and the outer syncytiotrophoblasts (ST). At the tip of placental villi,
trophoblast cell columns anchored into the decidua form extravillous
trophoblasts (EVT) which invade and remodel the decidual spiral arteries
to increase blood flow to the placenta. The precise mechanisms mediating
86A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
this early development of the placenta are poorly understood. Here we
generated mixed cultures of human trophoblast stem cells (hTSC) and
human embryonic stem cells (hESC) which reveal remarkable selforganizing
ability in the generation of 3D villus-like structures within
the developing placenta.
Methods: We first generated GFP-expressing hTSCs with lentiviral
transduction and co-cultured them with hESCs pre-labeled with red
CellTracker dye by directly mixing them in the AggreWell plate and
later transferring them into either suspension or adherent culture. Live
cell imaging, immunofluorescence and qPCR were used to characterize
cell differentiation, migration, and marker gene expression within the
developing 3D structures.
Results: Initially in suspension culture, the mixed TSCs/ESCs separate
into two isotypic populations, which over time self-organize through
mutual cell migration. Trophoblasts migrate to cover the ESCs, while
the ESCs migrate into the trophoblasts, downregulating pluripotency
marker expression (OCT4/SOX2) and upregulating expression of early
mesoderm markers (T-box transcription factor/EOMES), as they form a
core surrounded by trophoblast resembling an early developing villus-like
structure. Furthermore, these mesoderm-like cells within the developing
“villous core” express angiogenic markers (ANGPT2/CD144/VEGFA/
VEGFR1), indicating that they may hold potential for vasculogenesis and
angiogenesis. ESCs within this villus-like structure provide important
signals to the surrounding trophoblasts. Thus, trophoblasts in contact
with ESCs maintain a proliferative state, similar to CT, whereas those
not in contact with ESCs display morphologic and biochemical (hCGβ)
markers of ST. Finally, in adherent culture, overlying trophoblasts within
these villus-like structures show morphologic differentiation into EVT.
Conclusion: In summary, 3D co-aggregation of hTSCs and hESCs may
recapitulate the ongoing development of human placental villi with
temporal and spatial integrity and this model may be useful to study deeper
mechanisms for normal and diseased human placentation.
O-113
Ovarian Androgen Secretion is Reduced Following Suppression of
Lipid-Induced Inflammation with a Nonsteriodal Anti-Inflammatory
Agent in Women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS). Frank
Gonzalez, Ana-Leonor Jay, Jiaping Xue, Lixin Qi. University of Illinois
at Chicago College of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Suppression of nutrient-induced inflammation with a
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent reduces ovarian androgen secretion
in lean women with PCOS (AJP Endo 2020, 319:E744-E752). We
examined the effect of salsalate administration on lipid-induced reactive
oxygen species (ROS) generation, NFκB activation and TNFα secretion
from mononuclear cells (MNC) along with the ovarian androgen response
to HCG administration in women with PCOS who are overweight or
have obesity.
Methods: Thirteen women with PCOS diagnosed on the basis of
oligomenorrhea and hyperandrogenemia were selected for study.
Subjects were randomized to receive either salsalate 4 gm daily (n=6,
BMI 30.6±2.4 kg/m2) versus placebo (n=7, BMI 30.7±2.2 kg/m2) for 12
weeks. Body composition was assessed by MRI and insulin sensitivity
was derived by ISOGTT at baseline. Subjects ingested 100 ml of dairy
cream, and received a single 5000 IU IM injection of HCG before and
after treatment. ROS generation was measured by chemiluminescence,
activated NFκB activation was quantified by nuclear extract ELISA
and TNFα was measured in culture supernatants by ELISA in MNC
isolated from blood samples drawn while fasting and 2 hours after cream
ingestion. Testosterone (T) was measured by chemiluminescence and
androstenedione (A) was measured by ELISA from blood samples drawn
at 0, 24, 48 and 96 hours after HCG administration.
Results: There were no significant differences in age, body composition
and insulin sensitivity between groups. Before treatment, subjects
receiving either salsalate or placebo exhibited no significant differences in
the change from baseline in lipid-stimulated ROS generation (%, 102±18
vs. 100±18, p=0.94), NFκB activation (%, 106±15 vs. 115±18, p=0.72)
and TNFα secretion (absolute, 14.7±3.3 vs. 13.6±1.3 pg/ml, p=0.75) from
MNC, basal androgen levels (T: 68±5 vs. 66±2 ng/dl, p=0.77; A: 3.74±0.19
vs. 3.66±0.20 ng/ml, p=0.79) and HCG-stimulated androgen AUC (T:
7881±704 vs. 7656±389, p=0.78; A: 427±41 vs. 414±13, p=0.76). After
treatment, subjects receiving salsalate when compared with placebo
exhibited a decrease in the change from baseline in lipid-stimulated ROS
generation (%, 31±8 vs. 95±8, p<0.0004), NFκB activation (%, 37±7 vs.
89±17, p<0.03) and TNFα secretion (absolute, 7.9±1.3 vs. 15.1±1.6 pg/
ml, p<0.007) from MNC, basal androgen levels (T: 38±6 vs. 67±3 ng/dl,
p<0.002; A: 2.42±0.54 vs. 3.69±0.15 ng/ml, p<0.04) and HCG-stimulated
androgen AUC (T: 4458±717 vs. 7775±539, p<0.004; A: 224±24 vs.
405±39, p<0.003).
Conclusion: Ovarian androgen secretion is reduced following suppression
of lipid-induced inflammation even in women with PCOS who are
overweight or have obesity. Thus, inflammation may directly stimulate
hyperandrogenism in PCOS regardless of weight class.
Support: NIH grant R01 DK-107605 to F.G.
O-114
Metformin Attenuates Endotoxemia and Reduces Ovarian Theca
Androgen Production in Women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome.
Katherine J Kim†,1 Beata Banaszewska,2 Mateusz Trzcinski,2 Piotr
Piekarski,2 Leszek Pawelczyk,2 Antoni J Duleba∗.1 1University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, United States; 2Poznan University
of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.
Introduction: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized
by a wide range of endocrine and metabolic derangements, including
excessive ovarian androgen production, polycystic ovarian morphology,
and low-grade systemic inflammation. Previously, we found that proinflammatory
agents like lipopolysaccharides (LPS) stimulate ovarian
theca cell proliferation and androgen production. We also found that
PCOS is associated with gut dysbiosis and endotoxemia, as evidenced
by increased serum levels of LPS and LPS binding protein (LBP).
Metformin, a commonly used treatment of PCOS, has been shown to alter
gut microbiome and protect porcine enterocytes from intestinal barrier
damage and tight junction disruption. Consequently, we hypothesized that
metformin may reduce LPS leakage/egress into the circulation.
Methods: We evaluated 49 women diagnosed with PCOS at baseline
and after a three-month treatment with metformin (1,500 mg/day).
Endotoxemia markers were evaluated by measuring LPS and LBP.
Androgen production was determined by measuring total testosterone
(T) at baseline and post-hCG challenge (25μg iv) through ovarian theca
cell activation. Levels of gonadotropins and insulin were also evaluated.
Ovarian morphology was assessed using detailed 3D ultrasound. Statistical
analyses consisted of paired t-test and/or Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test.
Results: Metformin significantly reduced serum markers of endotoxemia:
LPS by 19% (P<0.0001) and LPB by 26% (P<0.0001). Androgen
production was attenuated, with T decreased by 13% (P=0.003) and
hCG-induced theca cell T production reduced by 73% (P=0.03). Fasting
insulin declined by 19% (P=0.02) while LH and FSH were not significantly
altered. Metformin treatment also led to a decrease in the total number of
all antral follicles by 7% (P=0.004) due to lower number of small follicles
(<6mm) by 7.6% (P=0.005).
Conclusion: Metformin significantly decreases markers endotoxemia
in parallel with a decline of ovarian androgen production, reduced
folliculogenesis, and lowering of the level of fasting insulin. We
hypothesize that metformin alters gut microbiome and/or modifies gut
permeability; the resultant decline of androgen production may be due to
a combination of the decrease in number of ovarian follicles (and theca
cells) and an attenuated stimulation of androgen production due to lower
insulin levels.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 87A
Friday Orals
O-115
An Ex Vivo Model of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) to Identify
Key Gene Regulatory Pathways Driving PCOS-Induced Ovarian
Disorders. Lauren Gibbs†,1 Ying Zhang,2 Pawat Pattarawat†,2 Hongyi
Xu,2 Kuhelika Mali†,2 Ji-Yong Julie Kim,3 Teresa Woodruff,4 Shuo Xiao∗.2
1Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Newark, NJ, United States; 2Rutgers
University, Piscataway, NJ, United States; 3Northwestern University,
Chicago, IL, United States; 4Michigan State University, East Lansing,
MI, United States.
Introduction: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affects up to 15% of
adolescent and reproductive-aged women worldwide. Diagnostic criteria
require at least two of the following signs including hyperandrogenism,
anovulation, and polycystic ovaries, and is associated with increased risk
for endocrine and cardiometabolic disease. The pathophysiology remains
elusive due to the complexity and lack of effective research models.
Methods: Utilizing an in vitro 3D ovarian follicle culture system, we
developed an ex vivo PCOS model to decipher molecular mechanisms
of PCOS-related ovarian disorders. Immature mouse follicles were
cultured with escalating gonadotropin ratios (0.1:1, 0.5:1, 1:1, and
3:1) of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG, an analog of luteinizing
hormone) to follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). The high hCG:FSH
ratios dose-dependently increased the secretion of testosterone and
progesterone and inhibited follicle rupture and oocyte meiotic resumption,
which recapitulates the hyperandrogenism, premature luteinization, and
anovulation observed in PCOS. Follicles cultured with 0.1:1 or 3:1 of
hCG:FSH, representing normal and PCOS-like gonadotropin ratios,
respectively, were collected for single-follicle RNA-seq analysis. Principle
component analysis separated normal and PCOS follicles into distinct
clusters, suggesting a significantly changed follicular transcriptome.
Results: There were 1377 differentially expressed genes (DEGs),
including 944 up- and 433 down-regulated genes in PCOS follicles.
Several DEGs have been implicated in ovarian dysfunctions, including
genes related to steroidogenesis and inflammation. We further developed
a target assessment investigating the roles of most up-regulated genes in
contributing to PCOS-related ovarian disorders. Ptgs2 was prioritized due
to its established role in inflammation. Other genes are being explored
despite no known link to PCOS.
Conclusion: Together, this study demonstrates that the ex vivo PCOS
model recapitulates key ovarian disorders of PCOS, enabling a powerful
platform to identify key gene regulatory pathways driving PCOS-related
ovarian disorders and develop targeted therapeutics.
O-116
Modelling Early Embryo-Endometrial Interactions: Insights from a
3D Culture System for Human Implantation on Differential Secretome
Dynamics in Euploid and Aneuploid Embryos. Andrea Palomar†,1
Roberto Yagüe†,1 Alicia Quiñonero,1 Morales Sara†,1 Mireia Florensa,2
Amparo Mercader,1 Pilar Alama,1 Jose Remohí,1 Matteo Molè,3 Imma
Sánchez∗,2,1 Francisco Dominguez∗.1,3 1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance
- IVI Foundation - IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2IVIRMA Global Research
Alliance, Barcelona, Spain; 3Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, United
States.
Introduction: The dynamic interaction of secreted proteins between
embryos and the maternal endometrium during implantation remains
unclear due to model limitations. This study examines the secretome
dynamics of embryo-endometrial communication using a 3D in vitro
model replicating the human endometrium. We investigated how euploid
(EU), monosomy 21 (M21), and trisomy 21 (T21) embryos influence this
crosstalk during early development.
Methods: Epithelial and stromal cells from endometrial biopsies (n=16)
were cultured and assembled into a hydrogel-based 3D endometrial
tissue model. After a 12-day hormone stimulation regimen, endometrial
receptivity markers (PAEP, PRL, IGFBP1) were measured via ELISA.
EU (n=6), T21 (n=5), and M21 (n=5) embryos were implanted into the
system, and conditioned culture media (CCM) were collected at various
time points. Secretome analysis included 290 proteins using proximity
extension assays (PEA). Differential protein expression (FDR < 0.05) was
analyzed, with enrichment using Gene Ontology and KEGG databases.
Results: Increased PAEP, PRL, and IGFBP1 secretion following hormone
stimulation confirmed a hormone-responsive, receptive endometrial
model. Secretome analysis showed biological processes like angiogenesis,
cell adhesion, and glycoprotein biosynthesis enriched in stimulated
endometrial systems. EU embryos at 7 d.p.f. shifted the secretome towards
cell differentiation, proliferation, tube development, and Wnt signaling,
while T21 embryos disrupted metabolism, neural development, and
induced early apoptotic signals. M21 embryos had minimal secretomic
changes early on, diverging more significantly later. By 14 d.p.f., EU
embryos promoted processes related to organ development and cell
motility, while T21 embryos exhibited proteins linked to cancer and
metabolic disorders. M21 embryos showed increased ER stress and protein
misfolding at 12-14 d.p.f., consistent with poor developmental outcomes.
Conclusion: This 3D in vitro model replicates key aspects of embryoendometrial
communication during implantation. Chromosomal
differences in embryos significantly influence secretome dynamics, with
euploid embryos showing normal development, and chromosome 21
aneuploidies revealing pathways related to implantation disorders. Key
secreted markers for successful implantation were identified. Funds ISCIII
PI20/00405; PI23/00860. CDTi IDI 20210916. GVA CIAPOT/2022/18.
O-117
Decellularization of Human Ovaries and Hydrogels Development:
Towards Clinical Translation. Emilio Francés-Herrero†,1 Clara Bueno-
Fernandez†,1,2 María Gómez-Álvarez†,1 Marcos Agustina-Hernández†,1
Paula Alonso-Frías†,1 Amparo Faus,1 Antonio Pellicer∗,3 Irene Cervelló∗.1
1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVI Foundation, IIS La Fe, Valencia,
Spain; 2Universitat de València, Valencia, Spain; 3IVIRMA Global Research
Alliance, IVIRMA Roma, Rome, Italy.
Introduction: Ovarian tissue engineering plays a crucial role in advancing
fertility preservation and regenerative medicine, particularly for women
facing premature ovarian failure or undergoing gonadotoxic treatments.
Decellularized ovarian extracellular matrix (OvaECM) offers a biomimetic
environment that closely resembles the native ovarian structure. This
OvaECM has the potential to serve as the basis for hydrogels, which
provide promising platforms for the in vitro culture of ovarian cells,
follicles, and organoids. This pioneering study advances towards clinical
applications by decellularizing the human ovarian cortex and medulla
separately to develop tissue-specific hydrogels.
Methods: Human ovaries (n = 4, Ethics Committee CEIm La Fe 2023-
199-1) were dissected to separate the cortex and medulla, which were
further fragmented and processed independently. Decellularization
was performed on both compartments using a modified protocol based
on detergents (SDS and Triton X-100) and enzymatic processing with
DNase I. The effectiveness of the decellularization process was evaluated
through histological analysis (H&E, DAPI) to confirm the removal of
cellular components. DNA quantification was also carried out to assess the
reduction in nucleic material. The OvaECMs from human cortex (n =4)
and medulla (n = 4) were milled and lyophilized as previously reported
by our group. Next, they were solubilized to produce hydrogels, and their
gelation kinetics were assessed using turbidimetry. Statistical analysis was
performed using t-tests (statistically significant, p<0.05).
Results: Histological analysis confirmed the complete removal of cellular
and nuclear material in both the cortex and medulla after decellularization.
DNA quantification showed a 99 % reduction in nucleic content in
both tissues (p<0.05), supporting the suitability of both OvaECMs for
further applications, and enhancing its potential biocompatibility. The
solubilized OvaECMs from both the cortex and medulla formed stable
hydrogels at physiological temperature, achieving full gelation within
20 minutes. Ongoing studies are examining the mechanical properties of
these hydrogels using rheology, as well as their microstructure through
electron microscopy and biochemical composition via proteomic analysis.
Conclusion: The successful decellularization of both the cortex and
medulla from human ovaries and the subsequent formation of stable
OvaECM hydrogels represent significant progress towards developing
biomimetic platforms for ovarian tissue engineering, with potential
applications in fertility preservation and regenerative medicine.
88A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
O-118
Spatiotemporal mRNA Targeting to the Endometrium for the
Treatment of Female Infertility. Saed A. Abbasi†. Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Infertility affects 11% of women in the U.S. Dysfunction in
the endometrium, the uterus lining where embryo attachment occurs, can
cause infertility. Women with a thin endometrial are less likely to become
pregnant and suffer from obstetric complications. Regenerative medicine
using growth factors or hormones could restore the endometrium, but offtarget
toxicity and poor uptake of therapeutic proteins are drawbacks. We
hypothesized that messenger RNA (mRNA) delivery by lipid nanoparticles
(LNPs) can induce sustained therapeutic protein delivery, however, a
strategy for the selective targeting of mRNA to the endometrium is lacking.
Here, we report on a novel strategy for endometrial mRNA delivery using
engineered LNPs that target the endometrium during the implantation
window and avoid off-target exposure.
Methods: LNPs were formulated by rapid mixing. Targeting ligands were
added to the lipid phase. Mice in the implantation window were injected
at E5. Treatments were injected in the distal uterine horn following a
minimally invasive laparotomy. Luciferase expression was quantified from
tissue homogenates using a plate reader. Microscopic observation of GFP
was carried out using an Axiovert epifluorescence microscope. Infertility
studies were carried out using an intrauterine ethanol injury model.
Results: Overexpression of integrin receptors during the implantation
window was utilized to target mRNA-LNPs to the endometrium. The
LNP was engineered to allow for multivalent, high-density RGD-ligand
decoration on the surface. Luciferase expression in the uterus was ~4 times
higher in mice receiving the ligand-conjugated mRNA-LNP during the
implantation window compared to unmodified LNP. Luciferase expression
in the uterus was comparable between ligand-conjugated and unmodified
LNPs when the injection was performed outside the implantation window.
Microscopic analysis using GFP mRNA revealed that the delivery was
localized to the luminal and glandular epithelium and stroma of the
endometrium. A single intrauterine injection using the growth factor GMCSF
mRNA in LNPs sustained protein production with minimal systemic
exposure. mRNA-based delivery of GM-CSF mRNA enhanced embryo
implantation in a thin-endometrium model and outperformed recombinant
protein-based delivery.
Conclusion: We developed a novel strategy for the time- and site-specific
targeting of mRNA to the endometrium. The new mRNA-LNP localizes
GM-CSF production in the uterus for sustained periods with no systemic
exposure to the liver, spleen, or plasma. The findings presented here
provide a promising new and potentially safer infertility treatment for
themanagement of thin endometrium.
O-119
Impact of SARS-CoV-2 in Pregnancy on Early Childhood Growth and
Development. Ofer Beharier∗,1 Joshua Guedalia∗,1 Dvora R. Sehtman-
Shachar†,1 Liya Kerem†,1 Adva Cahen-Peretz†,1 Sarah M. Cohen∗,1
Yishai Sompolinsky†,1 Galit Shefer†,1 Eli Melul†,2 Debra Goldman-
Wohl∗,1 Simcha Yagel∗,1 Ronit Calderon-Margalit∗,1 Michal Lipschuetz∗.1
1Hadassah Hebrew University Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel; 2Israel
Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, Israel.
Introduction: Despite the large extent of the COVID-19 pandemic, little
data exists on the potential impact of maternal SARS-CoV-2 infections
during pregnancy on child growth and development. We aimed to estimate
whether intrauterine exposure to SARS-COV2 was associated with growth
and development deficits in the first two years of life.
Methods: In this cohort study, of 232,992 term neonates born between
March 2020 and March 2022, 22,149 babies born to mothers infected
with SARS-CoV-2 during pregnancy were matched with 44,293 noninfected
controls. Data on weight, head circumference, performance
in developmental milestones in gross-motor, fine-motor, language,
and personal-social skills, and information on specialist referrals were
collected by the Health Ministry during routine maternal and child health
clinic visits. Stratified Cox proportional-hazards models were constructed
to yield hazard ratios (HR) and 99% confidence intervals (CI), controlling
for potential confounders.
Results: Growth trajectories for weight and head circumference showed
no significant differences between children who were exposed in-utero to
SARS-COV2 and those who were not. Similarly, there were no differences
in developmental milestones and referral rates to specialists by exposure
status (for example, failing “Has vocabulary over 10 words” had HR of
1.06 (99% CI: 0.67-1.66)). These results were not affected by sex, trimester
of exposure, or disease severity.
Conclusion: Our comprehensive nationwide study showed no effect of
maternal SARS-CoV-2 infection during pregnancy on early childhood
development and growth of term neonates. With rigorous two-year
follow-up and standardized assessments, this study provides reassuring
results regarding early childhood sequelae following maternal infection
during pregnancy.
O-120
Characterizing Environmental Risk for Preterm Birth Using
Objective and Subjective Measure of Neighborhood Disorder. Shawn
J Latendresse∗. Baylor University, Waco, TX, United States.
Introduction: Twin and family studies have established the substantial
contribution of environmental factors to inter-individual differences in
preterm birth, especially in pregnancies from Black women. Yet, common
maternal risk factors typically obtained from medical records (e.g., socioeconomic
status, educational achievement, maternal age) only partially
account for the overall environmental risk profile. The measurement of
environmental features by both direct observation and subjective rating
provides an opportunity to characterize high-impact exposures in addition
to those achievable by electronic health records.
Methods: Objective measurement of neighborhood conditions was
assessed by the Neighborhood Inventory for Environmental Typology
(NIfETy) in Richmond, VA as part of the longitudinal Pregnancy, Race,
Environment, and Pregnancy (PREG) study (N = 198, 50% Black). The
NIfETy, developed and used extensively in Baltimore, Maryland, is
a validated instrument comprising 168 items covering seven separate
theoretical domains of neighborhood environment, including physical
layout, resident activity, and indicators of violence, alcohol, tobacco, and
other drugs. Subjective measures from questionnaires included the 18-item
Neighborhood Environment Scale (NES) and a neighborhood measure
from the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System (PRAMS).
Results: Initial latent class analyses identified two qualitatively distinct
neighborhood prototypes, yet although this solution was significant, it
had low explanatory power to predict gestational duration (R2adj = 2.5%).
Moreover a sum score across 18 indicators from the NES accounted
for less than 1% of variation in gestational duration. Finally, multiple
regression analysis combining objective and subjective neighborhood
assessments identified four variables which explained 17.2% of variation
in gestational duration (F4,135 = 8.225, P-val < 0.001). These 4 predictors
were “presence of yellers” (NIfETy), “how often did you feel unsafe in
your neighborhood” (PRAMS), “most adults in my neighborhood respect
the law” (NES), “in my neighborhood I see signs of racism/prejudice”
(NES). These associations persisted after the inclusion of known maternal
risk factors.
Conclusion: This study showed that a large proportion of variation
in gestational duration was unique to a small subset of neighborhood
measures, both objective and subjective. Neighborhood-level
environmental assessments offer an intuitive appeal to researchers and
policy makers interested in how environmental characteristics shape and
influence maternal health and pregnancy outcomes.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 89A
Friday Orals
O-121
Residing in a Pharmacy Desert and Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes:
A Geospatial Study. Blake A Neuburg†,1 William A Grobman∗,1,2 Wu
Jiqiang∗,1 Sadiya S Khan∗,3 Kartik K Venkatesh∗.1 1The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH, United States; 2Brown University, Providence,
RI, United States; 3Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Retail pharmacies may serve as an important point of access
to healthcare services including medications, vaccination, and health
information. Recent closures of pharmacies across the US may impact the
health of pregnant individuals. We investigated the association between
residing in a pharmacy desert and adverse pregnancy outcomes (APOs).
Methods: A secondary analysis of the prospective nuMoM2b
observational cohort of nulliparous individuals residing in eight urban
areas across the US. Pharmacy deserts were defined as residing in an
urban area (census block group) without access to a retail pharmacy within
1 kilometer from home. Outcomes were gestational diabetes mellitus
(GDM), hypertensive disorder of pregnancy (HDP), preterm birth <37
weeks (PTB), large-for-gestational-age (LGA), small-for-gestational-age
(SGA), and the cumulative number of APOs. Modified Poisson regression
adjusted for maternal age and individual social determinants. Secondarily,
we assessed whether the association between living in a pharmacy
dessert and APOs varied (i.e., whether there was effect modification) by
neighborhood-level socioeconomic disadvantage as measured by tertiles
of the Area Deprivation Index (ADI).
Results: Among 9,322 nulliparas residing in urban areas the mean (SD)
maternal age was 27.3 (5.6) years. More than one-fourth of the sample
(26.7%) lived in a pharmacy desert. In multivariable analyses, individuals
living in a pharmacy desert had higher risk of HDP (14.7% vs. 12.3%;
adjusted risk ratio (ARR): 1.17; 95% CI: 1.02, 1.36) and PTB (10.6%
vs. 8.9%; ARR: 1.30; 95% CI: 1.08, 1.57). Similarly, those living in a
pharmacy desert were at higher risk of experiencing any APO (38.8% vs.
36.8%; ARR: 1.09; 95% CI: 1.02, 1.18). The associations of living in a
pharmacy desert with composite APO and HDP differed by tertile of ADI
(interaction p=0.01 and 0.02, respectively), such that the associations were
significant only for those who lived in neighborhoods with the greatest
socioeconomic disadvantage.
Conclusion: In a US cohort of urban nulliparas, living within a pharmacy
desert was a risk marker for APOs with the strongest association for those
who lived in neighborhoods with the greatest socioeconomic disadvantage.
O-122
Neonatal Outcomes in Obese Patients Administered Betamethasone:
A United States National Perspective. Zimeng Gao, Shaun Wesley,
Alexsaundra Zywicki, Sarah Crimmins. University of Rochester, Rochester,
NY, United States.
Introduction: Against the backdrop of rising international obesity rates
and the high impact of preterm delivery, we wanted to utilize United
States national birth data to investigate neonatal outcomes of premature
neonates following betamethasone administration in patients stratified
by obesity status.
Methods: We conducted a retrospective cohort study using data from the
United States Vital Statistics Natality Birth Data from 2018 to 2022. Our
study included singleton pregnancies with maternal BMI categorized as
non-obese (BMI < 30), class I (BMI 30-34.9), class II (BMI 35-39.9),
and class III (BMI ≥ 40) obesity that delivered prematurely (gestational
age 24-36 weeks) and received antenatal betamethasone. Exclusion
criteria were major congenital anomalies, fetal aneuploidy, maternal
pregestational diabetes, multiple gestations, and chorioamnionitis.
Multivariable logistic regression was employed to evaluate composite
neonatal outcomes, controlling for maternal age, race, gestational age at
delivery, and birth weight.
Results: The analysis included 324,622 cases after applying inclusion
criteria. The multivariable logistic regression indicated that class III
obesity was associated with a significant increase in adverse composite
neonatal outcomes which include assisted ventilation, admission to NICU,
need for surfactant, antibiotic administration, and neonatal seizures. The
adjusted odds ratios (aOR) for adverse outcomes were 1.14 (95% CI: 1.11,
1.18) for overweight, 1.22 (95% CI: 1.19, 1.26) for class I obesity, 1.30
(95% CI: 1.25, 1.35) for class II obesity, and 1.29 (95% CI: 1.24, 1.35)
for class III obesity compared to non-obese patients. Specifically, class III
obesity was associated with higher rates of NICU admissions, respiratory
distress syndrome, and neonatal resuscitation at birth.
Conclusion: Our findings demonstrate, on a large national scale, that
class III maternal obesity is associated with statistically significant
worse composite neonatal outcomes despite antenatal betamethasone
administration. These results emphasize the need for further research
on the efficacies of medications in individuals in higher BMI categories.
O-123
Impact of Peri-Conceptional Exposure to Glucagon-Like Peptide-1
(GLP-1) Receptor Agonists on Perinatal and Neonatal Outcomes.
Darios Getahun∗,1,2 Wudeneh M Mulugeta,3 Morgan R Peltier,4 Vicki Y
Chiu,1 Fagen Xie,1 Theresa M Im,1 Nehaa Khadka†,1 Alexa N Reilly,2
Jiaxiao M Shi,1 Michael J Fassett.5,6 1Research & Evaluation, Kaiser
Permanente Southern California, Pasadena, CA, United States; 2Health
Systems Science, Kaiser Permanente Bernard J. Tyson School of Medicine,
Pasadena, CA, United States; 3Internal Medicine, Kaiser Permanente
Northwest, Portland, OR, United States; 4Psychiatry and Behavioral
Health, Jersey Shore University Medical Center, Neptune City, NJ, United
States; 5Obstetrics & Gynecology, Kaiser Permanente West Los Angeles
Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States; 6Clinical Science, Kaiser
Permanente Bernard J. Tyson School of Medicine, Pasadena, CA, United
States.
Introduction: GLP-1 receptor agonists are commonly used to treat
diabetes mellitus but are increasingly prescribed for weight management.
Although animal studies have suggested that GLP-1 receptor agonists may
cause adverse perinatal outcomes, the impact of GLP-1 receptor agonists
on pregnancy outcomes in women is lacking, despite widespread use.
This study examines the associations between peri-conceptional exposure
to GLP-1 receptor agonists and adverse perinatal outcomes in a large,
integrated healthcare system.
Methods: We conducted a retrospective cohort study among singleton
pregnancies delivered between 01/01/2020 - 12/31/2023 (n=127,718) in
Kaiser Permanente Southern California. Data on GLP-1 receptor agonist
exposure one year before pregnancy were obtained from pharmacy
records. In- and out-patient records were used to ascertain perinatal
outcomes. We compared obstetrical outcomes occurring in pregnancies
exposed versus unexposed to GLP-1 receptor agonists by post-treatment
pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI). Adjusted odds ratios (aOR) and
95% confidence intervals (CI) derived from Firth’s bias-reduced logistic
regression models were used to assess the magnitude of associations by
BMI categories.
Results: Of the 127,718 pregnant people, 124 were prescribed GLP-1
receptor agonists (9.7/10,000), most frequently liraglutide (67.7%) and
semaglutide (27.4%). GLP-1 receptor agonists increased the risk of some
adverse pregnancy outcomes, however, the association varied by posttreatment
pre-pregnancy BMI. The outcomes that were mostly associated
(aOR [95% CI]) with GLP-1 receptor agonists included postpartum
hemorrhage (3.1 [1.1, 9.1]), postpartum depression (3.0 [1.9, 4.7]), and
stillbirth (7.2 [2.0, 25.7]). Most of these increased risks were associated
with a failure to normalize pre-pregnancy BMI.
Conclusion: Exposure to GLP-1 receptor agonists was associated with
selected adverse perinatal and neonatal outcomes that are dependent
on post-treatment pre-pregnancy BMI regardless of the timing of
preconception exposure. Data suggest there is a need for more research
to understand the role GLP-1 receptor agonists play in perinatal and
neonatal outcomes.
O-124
Do Peripartum Morbidities Increase the Risk of Developing
Postpartum Depression? Audrey Marinelli†, Lisbet Lundsberg, Caitlin
Partridge, Jennifer Culhane. Yale University, New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: The incidence of postpartum depression has increased
tremendously in recent years. Studies show that patients with complicated
deliveries are at increased risk of postpartum emergency room visits and
90A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
hospital admission for psychiatric indications, but the impact on risk
of postpartum depression is unknown. We hypothesized that patients
suffering a peripartum morbidity are more likely to have high postpartum
depressive symptomatology compared to patients with uncomplicated
healthy term deliveries.
Methods: This is a retrospective chart review of 3,600 patients with
singleton deliveries receiving antenatal and postpartum care within the
Yale New Haven Healthcare system and with evidence of at least one
Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) screen both antenatally
and within 6 months post-delivery. We defined peripartum morbidity as
having at least one of the following: neonatal or maternal ICU admission,
fetal or neonatal death, diagnosis of pre-eclampsia with severe features,
hysterectomy, or blood transfusion. The comparison group included
patients without peripartum morbidity and no evidence of any of the
following: chronic hypertension, hypertensive disorder of pregnancy,
pregestational or gestational diabetes, sickle cell anemia, in vitro
fertilization, low birth weight or preterm delivery. Patients were considered
positive for moderate to severe depressive symptoms if they scored ≥13
on any postpartum EPDS. Bivariate tests of association were preformed
comparing patients with and without peripartum morbidity and patients
with and without evidence of postpartum depression. Using logistic
regression, we assessed if patients with peripartum morbidity (primary
independent variable, IV) were at higher risk of postpartum depressive
symptomatology (dependent variable, DV), adjusting for variables
associated with both the primary IV and DV or just the DV at p < 0.05.
Results: Patients with peripartum morbidity had significantly different
baseline characteristics including race, marital status, insurance type,
body mass index (BMI) at delivery admission, parity, smoking status,
mode of delivery, and positive antenatal depression screens compared
to healthy controls. The unadjusted odds ratio (OR) of postpartum
depression symptomatology after a severe peripartum morbidity was 2.07
(CI 1.61-2.65). After adjustment for age, language, BMI, parity, smoking,
and antenatal depressive symptoms, the odds of developing postpartum
depression symptomatology after a severe peripartum morbidity was
aOR 1.87 (CI 1.44-2.43).
Conclusion: People experiencing peripartum morbidity were nearly twice
as likely to meet criteria for positive postpartum depression screen, even
after adjusting for confounding factors including antenatal depressive
symptoms. This population is at high risk for developing depression and
warrants early and frequent postpartum follow up.
O-125
Tadalafil Therapy for Protecting the Fetal Heart Against Injury:
Studies in the Chicken Embryo. D. Duru†,1 S. Maki,2 Y. Niu,1 T. Ikeda,2
D. A. Giussani∗.1 1University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom;
2Mie University, Mie, Japan.
Introduction: The phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor Tadalafil has a
long half-life and high selectivity for PDE5, which improves nitric oxide
(NO) bioavailability (Maki et al. Biomedicines 12: 804, 2024). Tadalafil
improves uteroplacental blood flow and is currently being evaluated in a
multi-centre, randomized, Phase II human clinical trial to improve fetal
growth in human pregnancy complicated by early-onset fetal growth
restriction (Maki et al. BMJ Open 12(6): e054925, 2022). Since NO is
cardioprotective, we tested the hypothesis that Tadalafil will also protect
the fetal heart against episodes of ischaemia-reperfusion (IR), as may
result from umbilical cord compression during labour. The hypothesis
was tested using the chicken embryo because in contrast to fetal rats and
fetal mice, the chicken embryo heart is amenable to functional study via
the Langendorff preparation.
Methods: Fertilized Bovans Brown eggs were incubated under optimal
conditions (21% O2, 45% humidity). On day 19 out of the 21-day
incubation period, following cervical transection, the embryonic heart
was excised, and cardiac function was determined via a Langendorff
preparation. After baseline recordings, hearts were treated randomly with a
0.1 ml bolus into the perfusate either with vehicle (PEG400; Control n=7)
or drug (10 mg kg-1 Tadalafil in PEG400; n=7). Following 10 min after
treatment, global asphyxia was induced for 30 min by halting the perfusate.
Following 2h of reperfusion, the hearts were sectioned and stained with
tetrazolium chloride for analysis of infarct size. Comparisons for statistical
significance were performed using the Student’s t test or RM two-way
ANOVA, as appropriate. Significance was accepted when P<0.05.
Results: Relative to vehicle, Tadalafil treatment did not affect basal
cardiac function but increased basal coronary flow rate (CFR, relative
to heart weight, area under the curve AUC: 142±21 vs. 195±40 ml.min-
1.g-1, P<0.05). Following ischaemia-reperfusion (IR), relative to vehicle,
Tadalafil treatment improved systolic recovery indexed by a greater
maximal rate of rise in left ventricular (LV) developed pressure (dP/dtmax:
7263±505 vs. 9192±504, AUC, P<0.05) and lower values for LV end
diastolic pressure (LVEDP: 11810±1934 vs. 6207±997, AUC, P<0.05),
signifying improved relaxation. Infarct size post IR was markedly reduced
by Tadalafil treatment (45±5 vs. 25±6 %, P<0.05).
Conclusion: Treatment with Tadalafil increased coronary flow rate and
protected the developing heart against asphyxia. Therefore, Tadalafil may
prove a useful therapeutic agent to precondition the fetal heart against IR
injury, as may occur in complicated labour.
Supported by the British Heart Foundation and The Lister Institute
O-126
Advanced Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy: Navigating the
Challenges of Investigating Fetal Brain Metabolism. Jordan A Minns†,1
Jack RT Darby,1 Stacey L Holman,1 Brahmdeep S Saini,2,3 Georgia K
Williams,4 Steven Miller,5,6 Mike Seed,2,3 Janna L Morrison∗.1 1University
of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia; 2The Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, ON, Canada; 3University of Toronto Canada, Toronto, ON,
Canada; 44South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute,
Adelaide, Australia, Adelaide, Australia; 5University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada; 6British Columbia Children’s Hospital Research
Institute, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Introduction: Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) can noninvasively
evaluate the brain’s biochemical status. For the brain to develop
appropriately, the fetal circulation preferentially delivers nutrient-rich
blood to the brain through unique adaptations in the fetal circulation.
Failure of these adaptations may lead to compromised neurodevelopmental
outcomes. We aimed to apply an MRS method that mitigates the challenges
of maternal respiration and fetal movement, enabling us to study how
variations in cerebral oxygenation impact cerebral metabolism, with the
potential to detect early signs of altered neurodevelopment.
Methods: At 105-110 days gestational age (dGA; term, 150d), pregnant
ewes (n=9) underwent fetal catheterization surgery under aseptic
conditions. At 120-123 dGA, fetal MRI scans were performed using a 3T
Siemens system while the ewe was anaesthetised and ventilated. Proton
MRS was conducted in Normoxia (Nx) and Hyperoxia (Hyx) utilizing
a Point-Resolved Spectroscopy (PRESS) sequence with an intermediary
echo time, an isotropic voxel size of 15 mm, and acquisition synchronized
to maternal expiration. Blood flow and oxygenation in major fetal vessels
were assessed using phase-contrast MRI and T2 oximetry during both Nx
and Hyx, the latter induced by maternal hyperoxygenation (6L O2). Post-
MRI, ewes and fetuses were euthanized, and brain tissue collected. Data
was analyzed using a paired t-test, with P<0.05 considered significant.
Results: Maternal Hyx during MRI significantly increased both maternal
and fetal PO2 and SO2 compared to Nx. Despite these changes, cerebral
blood flow, oxygen delivery, and consumption remained stable, while
pulmonary blood flow increased between Nx and Hyx. Our MRS protocol
detected brain metabolites such as choline, creatine, N-acetyl aspartate,
and lactate in both states. However, no significant differences were
observed in these metabolites between Nx and Hyx.
Conclusion: MRS in the fetal sheep brain whilst in utero is feasible for
non-invasively detecting crucial brain metabolites. Moreover, the data
obtained from our MRS and the previously validated fetal oximetry
technique showed that fetal cerebral O2 consumption and brain metabolite
concentrations were unchanged in hyperoxia. Thus, this technique may
be a useful tool to assess biochemical changes in the fetal brain in the
setting of fetal growth restriction when oxygen availability is reduced,
and the fetal circulatory adaptations are challenged.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 91A
Saturday Orals
O-127
Restoring the Expression of an Autophagy Gene Ambra1 Ameliorates
Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress and Neural Tube Defects in Diabetic
Pregnancy. Md Mahadi Hassan, Bingbing Wang∗, E. Albert Reece∗, Peixin
Yang∗. University of Maryland Baltimore, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Preexisting maternal diabetes is associated with an increased
risk of neural tube defects (NTDs); however, the mechanisms underlying
failed neurulation in embryos of diabetic pregnancy remain elusive.
Autophagy, an intracellular process that clears dysfunctional proteins
and damaged organelles via the double-membraned autophagosomes,
is crucial for maintaining cellular homeostasis and contributes to cell
survival and proliferation. It has been shown that maternal diabetes
impairs autophagy and induces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in
the developing neuroepithelium leading to excessive apoptosis, leading
to NTD formation. Ambra1 (Activating Molecule in Beclin1-Regulated
Autophagy 1) is a key positive regulator of autophagy, and its expression
is repressed by maternal diabetes. We hypothesize that restoring Ambra1
expression in the neuroepithelium re-activates autophagy and thus
alleviates diabetic embryopathy.
Methods: NTDs were examined at embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5) using
microscopy and H&E staining. Biochemical analyses, including western
blotting and immunofluorescence, were performed at E8.75. Apoptotic
cells in the neuroepithelium were assessed using the TUNEL assay.
Results: We generated a neural stem cell marker nestin promoter-driven
Ambra1 transgenic (Tg) mouse line. Ambra1 Tg embryos had a significant
reduction of NTD rates compared with their wild-type (WT) litter
mates in diabetic pregnancy.We found maternal diabetes significantly
suppressed autophagy in neuroepithelial cells, as evidenced by reduced
LC3-II (microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3) expression,
and GFP-LC3 puncta. However, Ambra1 overexpression in Tg mice
restored autophagosome puncta formation under diabetic conditions.
Furthermore, we assessed a battery of genes that have been validated to
be involved in regulation of autophagy process and found that maternal
diabetes suppressed the expression of ULK1 (Atg1 in yeast), Atg 3, Atg5,
Beclin1 (Atg6), and Ambra1, all of which are essential for autophagosome
formation. Ambra1 Tg expression restored some Atg gene expression
suppressed by maternal diabetes. We also found that maternal diabetes
simultaneously increased the expression of p62, whose accumulation
serves as an index of impaired autophagy. Moreover, maternal diabetes
upregulates the expression of seven ER chaperone genes, a change that
is reversed by Ambra1 overexpression.
Conclusion: These results suggest that Ambra1 Tg expression restores
autophagy in neuroepithelial cells inhibited by maternal diabetes,
suppresses ER stress by preventing ER chaperone gene upregulation,
reduces apoptosis and rescue Atg gene expression leading to a reduction
of NTD formation. Thus, re-activating autophagy in neuroepithelium
could offer new therapeutic strategies for reducing NTD risk in diabetic
pregnancies.
O-128
Antenatal Melatonin Treatment Restores Hippocampal Structure
and Function in Newborn and 4-Week-Old Fetal Growth Restricted
Lambs. Tegan A White†,1,2 Charmaine R Rock†,1,2 Beth R Piscopo†,1,2 Amy
E Sutherland,1,2 Yen Pham,1,2 Beth J Allison,1,2 Emily J Camm,1,2 Suzanne
L Miller.1,2 1Hudson Institute of Medical Research, Clayton, Australia;
2Monash University, Clayton, Australia.
Introduction: Fetal growth restriction (FGR) is a common pregnancy
complication associated with altered brain development and functional
deficits. Melatonin is a promising antenatal neuroprotective treatment
option due to its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. Accordingly,
we assessed the efficacy of antenatal melatonin for hippocampal structure
and function in newborn and 4-week-old FGR lambs.
Methods: Control (n=19), FGR (n=18) and FGR+melatonin (FGR+MLT;
n=16) cohorts were examined at two ages, newborn lambs (24-hour)
and 4-week-old lambs. To induce early-onset FGR, single umbilical
artery ligation surgery was performed at 88-90 days gestation (dGA,
term ~148dGA). Ewes in the FGR+MLT group received intravenous
melatonin infusion (15mg/day) commencing five days after surgery until
preterm birth, induced in all groups at 136dGA. The newborn lambs were
maintained for 24 hours before post-mortem. The 4-week-old lambs
completed functional testing between 2-4 weeks after birth (T-maze task
and an obstacle course), followed by post-mortem. Brain tissue, plasma
and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were collected for neuronal, histological
and biochemical analysis.
Results: Relative to control lambs, the FGR lambs displayed learning
and memory deficits (T-maze errors, p=0.020) and impaired social
interactions (vocalisations, p<0.001). Hippocampal neuronal morphology
was impacted with FGR, with reduced dendrite branching in newborn
(p=0.016) and 4-week-old FGR lambs (p<0.001) and reduced dendrite
length at 4-weeks-old (p<0.001). Melatonin mitigated the impact of
FGR on learning and memory function, with normalised performance
in the T-maze (FGR+MLT vs. control, p=0.151). Antenatal melatonin
treatment restored hippocampal neuronal morphology to control values
in newborn and 4-week-old FGR+MLT lambs (FGR+MLT vs control,
p>0.05 for dendrite branching and length). Indices of oxidative stress
(malondialdehyde) and inflammation (interleukin-6) were also reduced
with melatonin treatment in the newborn FGR+MLT lambs.
Conclusion: Placental insufficiency and FGR cause a significant deficit
in hippocampal dendritogenesis, with aberrant branch and length
development in basal and apical dendritic arbors. Antenatal melatonin
treatment protects neuronal development in utero and in turn, normalises
memory and social behaviours in postnatal lambs. This study demonstrates
the neuroprotective effect of antenatal melatonin supplementation on
hippocampal structure and function in FGR offspring, mediated via
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions.
O-129
Maternal 3-Hour Placental Lactogen Infusions Increase Fetal Glucose
Uptake in Hyperglucagonemic Fetuses by Regulating Placental
Utilization. Amelia R Tanner†,1 Marjorie A Nguygen,1 Russell V Anthony,2
Paul J Rozance∗.1 1University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus,
Aurora, CO, United States; 2Colorado State University, Fort Collins,
CO, United States.
Introduction: We previously demonstrated that 9-day glucagon infusions
in fetal sheep impaired both uterine glucose and O2 uptakes, leading to
reduced fetal growth. 9-day glucagon infusions also impaired placental
lactogen (PL) secretion, reducing circulating maternal PL concentrations.
In this study, we aimed to determine if fetal glucagon mediated suppression
of PL was responsible for impaired glucose and O2 uptakes, hypothesizing
that maternal PL infusions would ameliorate these deficits.
Methods: At 118±5 days of gestational age, pregnant sheep were
surgically fitted with vascular catheters. After a 5-day recovery, each
animal received fetal infusions of either glucagon (GCG; 50ng/kg/min;
n=8) or vehicle control (CON; n=7) for 9±2 days. On the second to last
day of the GCG or CON infusions, all animals were subjected to a 3-hour
maternal PL infusion. Immediately before (baseline) and again at the end
of the PL infusion, uterine and umbilical blood flows, glucose and O2
uptakes, and placental utilization were measured. Tissues were weighed
at necropsy the next day. PL concentrations were measured by RIA. Data
were compared by two-way ANOVA.
Results: Fetal glucagon infusion reduced maternal PL concentrations
(P=0.0040), fetal weights (P=0.0296) and placental weights (P=0.0285),
but had no effect on uterine blood flow. Maternal PL infusions however,
lowered (P=0.0014) uterine blood flow in both CON and GCG groups.
Conversely, fetal glucagon infusions tended (P=0.0506) to reduce
umbilical blood flow, but maternal PL infusion had no effect. Glucagon
reduced uterine (P=0.0005) and umbilical (P=0.0007) glucose uptake
and placental (P=0.0306) glucose utilization. Likewise, maternal PL
infusion tended (P=0.0606) to reduce uterine glucose uptake and lowered
(P=0.0023) placental glucose utilization in both CON and GCG groups.
However, in glucagon infused fetuses, maternal PL infusion increased
(P=0.0428) umbilical glucose uptakes. Fetal glucagon infusions reduced
uterine (P=0.0215) and umbilical (P=0.0019) O2 uptake but did not
change placental O2 utilization. Maternal PL infusions lowered uterine
92A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
(P=0.0015) O2 uptake and decreased placental (P=0.0008) O2 utilization,
proportionally increasing (P=0.0005) O2 transferred to the fetus in both
CON and GCG groups.
Conclusion: As hypothesized, PL infusion improved placental glucose
and O2 transfer. Surprisingly, this effect was independent of uterine blood
flow. We speculate glucagon acts by inhibiting trophoblast secretion of
PL to regulate glucose utilization by the placenta, thus reducing placental
transfer during prolonged fetal hyperglucagonemia. Altogether, this study
supports the physiological link between fetal glucagon and maternal PL
in coordinating glucose and O2 delivery to the fetus.
O-130
Single-Nucleus Transcriptomics Reveals Maternal Inflammation
Impairs Synaptic Signaling: A Novel Mouse Model for Fetal
Neurodevelopment. Weina Ju,1 Cherilyn Uhm,1 Yong Liu,1 Elizabeth A.
Bonney,2 Nanbert Zhong∗.1 1New York State Institute for Basic Research in
Developmental Disabilities, Staten Island, NY, United States; 2University
of Vermont, Larner College of Medicine, Burlington, VT, United States.
Introduction: Understanding fetal brain development mechanisms is
crucial for uncovering the origins of neurodevelopmental disorders.
The complex interplay of genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors
during this critical period is poorly understood, mainly due to the lack of
appropriate experimental models. This study introduces a novel strainspecific
mouse model to investigate intrauterine neurodevelopment.
Methods: Pregnant females from reciprocal matings between the
Collaborative Cross (CC12) mouse strain and C57BL/6 (B6) were exposed
to lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 3 μg; or saline for control) via intraperitoneal
injection on gestational day 15. The matings included (CC12 × B6) and
(B6 × CC12). Eighteen hours post-exposure, fetuses were harvested on
day 16 of gestation. Fetal brains were isolated and frozen at -80°C until
subjected to single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq). A total of
47,752 nuclei, with a median of 6,974 reads per nucleus and an average
of 16,823 genes per sample, were analyzed using the Innomics single-cell
genomics platform with standard bioinformatics pipelines.
Results: Cell annotation analysis revealed significant reductions in
neuronal subclusters in (CC12 × B6) matings exposed to LPS, from 9/18
(50%) in controls to 1/16 (6.25%) in treated pups (p < 0.001). In contrast,
the difference in neuronal subclusters between exposed and unexposed
pups in the (B6 × CC12) mating was non-significant (11/19, 64% vs.
10/17, 59%, p > 0.05). Differentially expressed cytokine-chemokine genes
(DEGs) in (CC12 × B6) matings included IL16, IL17d, TGFa, TGFb1,
TGFb1i1, TGFbi, CX3CL1, and CXCL12. For (B6 × CC12), only TGFa
and TNFRSF19 were differentially expressed in neuronal subclusters.
Surprisingly, while TLR1-9 and TLR11-13 were identified in LPS-treated
brains, TLR4 was absent from both neuronal and non-neuronal clusters.
Gene expression related to synaptic signaling, including vesicular
glutamate transporter, GABA vesicular transporter, glutamate receptors,
and GABA receptors, was significantly reduced or abolished in neuronal
subclusters of (CC12 × B6) but not in (B6 × CC12).
Conclusion: Intrauterine exposure to systemic inflammation disrupts
critical pathways in brain development, with outcomes modulated by
maternal genotype. This study highlights the importance of genetic and
environmental interactions in shaping fetal neurodevelopment, providing
valuable insights into neurodevelopmental disorder pathogenesis.
O-131
Lyme Disease Increases Risk for Uterine Conditions and
Gynepathologies. Paige Hansen Colburn. Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, MA, United States.
Introduction: Lyme disease (LD) is an illness caused by the spirochete
Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb). Bb is known to disseminate through organs,
including the skin, joints, spinal cord, bladder, heart, leading to Lyme
arthritis, neuroborreliosis, and Lyme carditis. While previous studies
have investigated the impact of LD on pregnancy and found the presence
of Bb in the uterus of mice, we studied the impact of LD on the female
reproductive tract.
Methods: Large-scale electronic human healthcare record data analysis.
LD (Bb infection) in vivo mouse (murine) model involving culturing
Bb, Bb murine infection, IVIS (In Vitro Imaging System) imaging &
analysis, tissue harvesting, flow cytometry, microscopy, gross imaging,
and histology.
Results: Using large-scale electronic healthcare record data, we report that
LD additionally results in increased risk of several gynecological diseases.
We use a LD mouse model and find a severe ongoing infection of the
reproductive tract, in which bacteria persist in the tissue up to 15-months
post-infection, resulting in glandular cysts, endometrial hyperplasia, and
interspersed endometrial stromal cells. Even in C57BL/6 mice, long
thought to be asymptomatic for LD, we observe uteruses infected with
Bb after 8 weeks of infection, and ongoing infection throughout the next
12 months. Additionally, we find that age has an impact on the extent
of gynepathology such that reproductively senescent aged mice (1-year
old) have more gynepathology with infection when infected for the same
length of time as young mice (15-weeks old).
Conclusion: It is currently unappreciated that LD can lead to
gynepathologies. Our data suggest that LD, which is previously known to
impact the bladder, may have an additional manifestation as a urogenital
disease. This is the first murine study to demonstrate that Bb can directly
cause extensive gynepathology. It is also the first population-based
study to demonstrate a strong association between Lyme disease and
subsequent gynecological conditions. This work suggests further study
of sex differences in the context of Bb infection.
O-132
The Role of CXCR3 in Vaginal Wound Healing. Nisha Shetty†, Kristina
Weber, Krystyna Rytel†, Katrina Knight, Pamela Moalli, Amanda Artsen∗.
Magee-Womens Research Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, United States.
Introduction: CXCR3 is a G-protein coupled receptor associated with
immune cell activation and wound healing, and is particularly important
for tissue replacement in the skin. Due to limited knowledge of wound
healing in the vagina following gynecologic surgery, childbirth, and
polypropylene mesh implantation, the objective of this study was to
determine the function of CXCR3 in vaginal wound healing and compare
this to skin.
Methods: CXCR3 -/- mice (n=2) and C57/BL mice (n=3) underwent
5mm excisional posterior vaginal wall and dorsal skin biopsies which
were allowed to heal by secondary intention. Nonsurgical CXCR3 -/- mice
(n=5) and C57/BL mice (n=2) served as controls. After 4 weeks, vaginal
and skin samples were collected for histological analysis via hematoxylin
and eosin and trichrome staining. 2 mm segments of skin and of posterior
vaginal wall immediately opposite the urethra corresponding to the biopsy
sites were analyzed. The images were analyzed using Qupath to observe
changes in cellularity and collagen content.
Results: In this preliminary mouse study, surgery was associated with
an expected trend towards increase in cellularity in all groups (wildtype
skin 7348 cells/mm2 with wounding vs 5320 cells/mm2 without; wildtype
vaginal 8495 cells/mm2 with wounding vs 4432 cells/mm2 without;
CXCR3 -/- skin 9179 cells/mm2 with wounding vs 4948 cells/mm2
without; CXCR3 -/- vaginal 7952 cells/mm2 with wounding vs 6190
cells/mm2 without; p<0.05 for wildtype vagina). In the wildtype mice,
wounding was associated with a trend towards increased percent collagen
in both the skin (82.2% wounded vs 62.8% collagen unwounded) and
vagina (46.7% wounded vs 27.2% unwounded). However, CXCR3
-/- skin wounds showed a trend towards decreased collagen (67.4%)
compared to unwounded CXCR3 -/- mice (72.9%) and this effect was
more pronounced in the CXCR3 -/- vaginal wounds (22.9% wounded vs
52.2% unwounded, p=0.06).
Conclusion: CXCR3 may play an important role in vaginal wound
healing and scarring after injury. Expansion of sample size and assessment
of collagen type by picrosirius red are planned to further evaluate this.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 93A
Saturday Orals
O-133
Dysregulation of ECM Genes by an Altered Decidualization Response
in Endometriosis. Virgil Bideau†, Bijaya Nayak∗, Zhao Zhang, Bruce
Nicholson, Nameer Kirma∗. University of Texas Health Science Center
at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is a complex disease characterized by
growth and infiltration of endometrial-like lesions into the peritoneal
lining. These ectopic lesions, which can be highly invasive, undergo
hormonal cycling like eutopic endometrial tissue. Though endometriosis
is benign, it shares similarities with malignancies including survival,
attachment, and invasion. Our studies focus on decidualization, as a
sensitive window affecting the differentiation of endometrial stromal
cells (ESCs). This, along with intense endometrium tissue remodeling,
creates a dynamic microenvironment affecting ESC-extracellular matrix
(ECM) interactions. In endometriosis, altered decidualization can create
a pro-invasive environment, leading to changes in the ECM of ectopic
lesions. We hypothesize that dysregulation of this dynamic process in
endometriosis may regulate the expression of genes involved in ECM
remodeling by ESCs.
Methods: To mimic the hormonal effect on ECM-receptors during
decidualization, primary ESCs (n=3 non-endometriosis; n=2
endometriosis) were treated with a decidualization hormonal regimen
(EPC): estrogen, progesterone, and cAMP for six days. Morphological
features as well as decidualization markers of ESCs by RT-qPCR and
ELISA were assessed in subjects with and without endometriosis. To
investigate these hormonal effects on ESCs, we then conducted RNAseq
analysis with the same EPC regimen as described above. This was
followed by differential gene analysis and gene ontology studies.
Results: While decidualization hormone treatment of ESCs elicited
an epithelioid-like morphology, in endometriosis, this decidualization
morphology was stunted with EPC treatment maintaining a fibroblastic
appearance. Further ELISA and RT-qPCR analyses of decidualization
markers prolactin and IGFBP confirmed the decidualization deficiency
in ESCs from women with endometriosis. PCA analysis of the RNA-seq
data show consistent clustering of the biological replicates. Reactome
analysis showed that the ECM pathway was significantly enriched. The
most significantly enriched genes were BMP4, collagen (COL) genes
(COL15A1, COL25A1) and integrin ITGA11. Differential gene analysis
showed that BMP4, COL15A1 and ITGA11 were higher in the untreated
ESCs from endometriosis, whereas COL25A1 was lower. COL25A1 was
refractory to EPC treatment in the endometriosis ESCs, but it was reduced
by EPC in non-endometriosis ESCs. Notably, among the four genes,
ITGA11 showed higher differential expression in the EPC treatment in
ESCs from endometriosis compared non-endometriosis.
Conclusion: Decidualization appears to be impaired in ESCs of women
with endometriosis compared to non-endometriosis. This was associated
with altered regulation in ECM COL genes. Further, elevated levels
of ITGA11 in endometriosis ESCs expression may contribute to their
invasiveness.
O-134
Characterizing Heterogeneity of Estrogen Receptor Isoform Expression
in Endometriosis: Rethinking the ERβ Dominance Hypothesis. Alexis E
Heath†, Douglas Brubaker∗. Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
OH, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is an estrogen-dependent disease
characterized by the presence of endometrial-like tissue growing outside
the uterus. Affecting approximately 10% of reproductive-aged women,
current diagnostic and treatment options are often ineffective, highlighting
the need for deeper biological understanding. Previous studies have honed
in on the role of estrogen’s two nuclear receptors - ERɑ and ERβ - in
endometriosis, specifically that aberrant dominance of ERβ drives disease.
However, little is known on how ERɑ and ERβ are expressed on specific
cell types and tissue origins.
Methods: We conducted a secondary analysis of single cell RNA-seq data
from endometriosis patients and disease-free patients across five tissue
origins. This data was sourced from the Gene Expression Omnibus under
accession code GSE179640. Using the R package Seurat, we labeled each
cell as its respective cell type within a tissue origin, examining expression
patterns of the genes encoding the receptors - ESR1 for ERɑ and ESR2
for ERβ - to ask three main questions: (1) How does estrogen receptor
isoform expression vary by cell type and tissue origin? (2) Do the nuclear
estrogen receptors tend to be uniquely expressed or coexpressed by cell
type and tissue origin? (3) How do ESR1/ESR2 expression ratios vary
by cell type and tissue origin? We used nonparametric statistical testing,
including Wilcoxon Rank Sum and Fisher’s Exact Test, to examine these
questions. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses
were conducted based on ESR1/ESR2 ratios to further explore the role
of varied isoform expression in endometriosis.
Results: Our results found (1) Expression of each nuclear estrogen
receptor significantly differed across most tissue origins and cell types.
Notably, ERβ expression was most pronounced in endothelial cells of
endometriotic tissues. (2) Most cells expressed neither receptor, but
among cells uniquely expressing a receptor, ESR1 was more frequently
expressed than ESR2. (3) Stromal and epithelial cells showed significant
differences in the ESR1/ESR2 ratio distribution across nearly all tissue
origin pairings. Pathway enrichment analysis identified “Pathways in
Cancer,” “Chemokine Signaling,” and “Endocytosis” as significantly
enriched in epithelial cells from three endometriotic tissue origins. Further
analysis of enriched pathways across all cell types is ongoing, with a focus
on the shared genes driving pathway enrichment.
Conclusion: These results, especially the considerable heterogeneity
in the ESR1/ESR2 ratio, suggests ERβ dominance in endometriosis is
overstated. Past research focused on ERβ dominance only in tissues of
ovarian origin; however, our results indicate no definitive shift to ERβ
dominance in any subgroup. Instead, the ESR1/ESR2 ratios and aberrant
expression of both ERɑ and ERβ should be considered as an indicator of
endometriosis development.
O-135
Deficient Ovarian Reserve and Abnormal Steroid Hormone Response
in a Spontaneous Ovarian Endometrioma Mouse Model. Yuliya
Klymenko, Oyinkasola Adeomojo†, Jillian R Wendel, Xiyin Wang, Robert
Emerson, Shannon M Hawkins∗. Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, IN, United States.
Introduction: Our Arid1af/f; Krasfsf-G12D; Amhr2Cre/+ (AKA) mouse model
faithfully generates spontaneous ovarian endometriomas. In women,
endometriomas can affect ovarian reserve. Further, medical treatment with
progestin-only or combined contraceptive methods does not significantly
affect ovarian endometrioma size. Objectives: (1) to assess levels of
gonadotropins, steroid hormones, and biomarkers of ovarian reserve in
AKA mice; (2) to elucidate the steroid hormone response of the AKA
female reproductive tract.
Methods: Amhr2+/+ (control) and AKA mice were subjected to cardiac
puncture for blood serum collection. Follicle-stimulating hormone
(FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), and
progesterone (P4) levels were assessed through the UVA Ligand Assay
& Analysis Core. Separately, 42d-old control and AKA mice (n=48; 6
per group) had subdermal placement of 60d-release pellets [placebo;
17β-estradiol (E2, 0.25mg/pellet); progesterone (P4, 25mg/pellet); or both
E2 and P4]. After 60 days, the female reproductive tract was dissected.
Results: Aged AKA mice (12mo) had significantly lower levels of
AMH [AKA, 35.8±9.7ng/ml (n=11); Amhr2+/+, [127.5±8.4ng/ml (n=17);
p<0.001], markedly higher FSH levels [AKA, 23.8±3.5ng/ml (n=19);
Amhr2+/+, [5.7±1.7ng/ml (n=15); p<0.0001], and significantly increased
LH levels [AKA, 1.1±0.14ng/ml (n=18); Amhr2+/+, [0.65±0.14 ng/ml
(n=14); p<0.05]. P4 levels between the two groups were similar (p=0.6).
Compared to placebo-treated AKA mice, ovarian weight was unaffected
by treatment with E2, P4, or E2/P4 pellets. However, only E2-treated
AKA mice showed glandular cystic growth of the ovarian endometriomas.
E2-treated AKA mice showed a significant increase in uterine weight
compared to placebo-treated AKA mice. Histologically, only E2-treated
AKA mice showed glandular cystic growth consistent with endometrial
hyperplasia.
Conclusion: Our findings show that 12-month AKA mice exhibit
ovarian failure. Additionally, the size of the AKA ovaries was unaffected
94A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
by medical management, similar to ovarian endometriomas in women.
Histologically, female reproductive tract tissues from AKA mice appear
more responsive to estradiol treatment. Supported by R01 HD109707
and R25 CA250973-01A1
O-136
A Novel Therapeutic Approach to Improve Pain and Subfertility in
Endometriosis Using Conditioned Medium of Umbilical Cord-Derived
Mesenchymal Stem Cells. S. Joseph Huang∗,1,2,3 Chun-Yen Huang,1 Ya-
Chun Yu,1 Yun-Hsiang Hung,1 Chih-Chen Chen,1 Li-Yen Shiu.4 1E-Da
Hospital/I-Shou University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; 2E-Da Dachang Hospital/IShou
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; 3Morsani College of Medicine, USF,
Tampa, FL, United States; 4E-Da Cancer Hospital/I-Shou University,
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
Introduction: Endometriosis is characterized by abnormal seeding of
endometrial tissue outside uterus. Patients with endometriosis suffer
from such pain-related symptoms as chronic pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea,
dyspareunia, dysuria and dyschezia as well as subfertility. Although
various agents are available to treat endometriosis, the recurrence rate
remains high. Lesion removal does not ensure pain relief. Lesion-derived
and neurogenic inflammation that lead to peripheral and ultimate central
sensitization cause endometriosis-induced pain. Our previous data showed
the inhibition of endometriosis development by conditioned medium
(CM) of multipotent adipose mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Other than
tissue regeneration, MSCs also exert immune regulatory effect. Umbilical
cord is an abundant source of umbilical cord-derived MSCs (UCMSCs).
Thus, the current study aims to test the effects of UCMSC-derived CM
(UCMSCCM) on the development of endometriosis, subfertility, and
pain induction.
Methods: UCMSCs were isolated from umbilical cord obtained from
cesarean section of normal term pregnancy under Good Tissue Practice
regulations. UCMSCs and UCMSCCM were collected and subjected to
quality validation, including karyotyping, growth promotion and sterility
tests for microbial contamination. Autologous endometriosis mouse
model was established by suturing 4 pieces of endometrial tissue 2 mm
in diameter to the peritoneum followed by treating with either ddH2O
or UCMSCCM for 28 days. After sacrifice, the area of lesions and the
grade of adhesion were measured. The expression of ICAM-1, caspase 3,
VEGF, PTGES, NGF, CGRP, MMP-9, TIMP-1, TNF-α, and IL-1β in the
lesions was assessed by qRT-PCR, IHC and Western blot. The thickness
and receptivity of cycling and decidualized eutopic endometrium as well
as pregnancy outcomes were also examined.
Results: Both UCMSCs and UCMSCCM passed quality validation.
Compared with control, UCMSCCM reduced the lesion size. qRT-PCR,
IHC and Western blot showed the consistent inhibition of ICAM-1, VEGF,
NGF, CGRP, MMP-9, TNF-α, and IL-1β as well as enhancement of
caspase-3 and TIMP-1 expression by UCMSCCM. Moreover, the eutopic
endometrial thickness and receptivity as well as pregnancy outcomes were
all improved by UCMSCCM treatment in endometriotic mice.
Conclusion: UCMSCCM exerts inhibitory effect on the development of
endometriosis and endometriosis-induced pain. The eutopic endometrial
receptivity and pregnancy outcomes in mice with endometriosis are
improved by UCMSCCM. This finding can potentially be translated to
clinical treatment for human endometriosis.
O-137
Endothelial PAS Domain-Containing Protein 1 Involvement in
Hemochorial Placental Development. Sri Vidya Dangudubiyyam,1 Marija
Kuna,1 Vinay Shukla,1 Masanaga Muto,1 Khursheed Iqbal,1 Michael J.
Soares.1,2 1University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United
States; 2Children’s Mercy Research Institute, Kansas City, MO, United
States.
Introduction: Hemochorial placentation involves deep trophoblast cell
invasion and extensive uterine transformation. Trophoblast stem (TS)
cells differentiate into syncytiotrophoblast and invasive trophoblast
cells. Trophoblast cell invasion is crucial for remodeling of uterine spiral
arteries to ensure adequate fetal blood supply and a successful pregnancy
outcome. Mechanisms regulating establishment of the uterine-placental
interface are not well understood. In this investigation we examined
a role for hypoxia inducible factor 2 alpha (HIF2A), encoded by the
endothelial PAS domain-containing protein 1 (EPAS1) gene, as a regulator
of hemochorial placentation.
Methods: Distribution of Epas1 transcripts was assessed in rat
placentation sites and rat TS cells using in situ hybridization and RT-qPCR.
To determine the role of EPAS1/HIF2A in invasive trophoblast cell and
hemochorial placenta development, CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing was
used to create an Epas1 mutant rat model. Wild type and homozygous
mutant placentation sites were characterized using histological and
transcriptome analyses.
Results: Epas1 transcripts were distributed throughout the placentation
site and increased during the differentiation of rat TS cells. An Epas1
mutant rat model possessing a 34 bp deletion within Exon 2, which
resulted in a frameshift and a premature stop codon, was generated
and characterized. Homozygous null mutations led to prenatal demise
by gestation day (gd) 16.5. At gd 14.5, Epas1 null placentas, including
junctional and labyrinth zone compartments, and fetuses were smaller
than wild type tissues. Invasive trophoblast cells arise from the junctional
zone compartment, which was further interrogated by RNA sequencing.
Disruption of Epas1 resulted in the upregulation of genes involved
in hormone biosynthesis and endothelial cell proliferation, and the
downregulation of genes involved in extracellular matrix organization,
protein processing, and antigen presentation. More specifically, genes
characteristic of invasive trophoblast cells were upregulated (e.g. Prl7b1,
Prl5a1, Nppb), while genes associated with other trophoblast cell types
were downregulated (e.g. Foxo4, Psg29, Cgm4, Tpbpa, Prl8a5, Ifnk,
Il17f).
Conclusion: We conclude that EPAS1 is essential for placental
development and implicate EPAS1 gene regulatory networks in
the progression of trophoblast cell lineage development within the
hemochorial placenta. [Supported by a postdoctoral fellowship from the
American Heart Association (MM), HD020676, HD112559, HD105734,
Sosland Foundation]
O-138
Role of Aspirin in Modulating Immune Responses and Reducing
CMV Transmission in Pregnancy. Vinay Shukla†, Saima Khatoon, Sahar
Khoshravesh, Anguo Liu, Jun Lei∗, Irina Burd∗. University of Maryland
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection during early pregnancy
poses significant risks to both the fetus and the mother, often leading to
congenital CMV infection with potential long-term complications. The
placenta plays a critical role in mediating the vertical transmission of
CMV from mother to fetus, influencing the severity of the infection.
Immunomodulatory responses during pregnancy can impact the maternal
immune system’s ability to control viral replication and placental invasion.
This study proposes the use of aspirin to modulate immune responses and
reduce the risk of CMV infection during pregnancy.
Methods: We explored the ex vivo effects of aspirin immunomodulation in
mouse cytomegalovirus (MCMV) infection in the E10 and E14 placenta.
The sample size (n) was 5, and aspirin was administered at doses ranging
from 0.017 to 0.43 μg/mL. After 24 and 48 hours, tissue and media
supernatant were collected for analysis. Viral infection was assessed
using plaque-forming units (PFU), cytotoxicity was evaluated through
an LDH assay, and inflammation was measured using an immunoassay
and RT-qPCR.
Results: Aspirin treatment in E10 and E14 mouse placenta for 24 and
48 hours resulted in a significant reduction in MCMV viral load, as
measured by plaque-forming units (PFU), indicating its potential to
limit viral replication (p<0.001). The LDH assay showed no significant
cytotoxicity, suggesting aspirin’s safety at the tested dose. Immunoarray
analysis revealed modulation of immune responses, with a decrease in
pro-inflammatory cytokines and an increase in anti-inflammatory markers
(p<0.05).
Conclusion: Our study demonstrates that aspirin effectively modulates
immune responses, reduces MCMV viral replication, and attenuates
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 95A
Saturday Orals
inflammation in the placenta during early pregnancy. These findings
suggest that aspirin could be a promising therapeutic strategy for managing
CMV infection in pregnancy.
O-139
Mitochondrial Glutamine Metabolism Regulates Trophoblast
Differentiation. Cassandra Norbeck†, Snehalata Jena, Renee Mahr,
Alisa Nelson, Eric Queathem, Patrycja Puchalska, Peter Crawford, Micah
Gearhart, Sarah Wernimont∗. University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN,
United States.
Introduction: Cytotrophoblast to syncytiotrophoblast differentiation
is accompanied by metabolic and transcriptional reprogramming.
Here, we report state-specific differences in glutamine metabolism and
test the hypothesis that glutamine metabolism regulates trophoblast
differentiation.
Methods: Trophoblast Stem Cells [TSC, Okae: CT-29 (male)] were
cultured in self-renewing (SR) or syncytiotrophoblast (ST) differentiation
conditions for 3 days. 13C-enrichment of TCA cycle intermediates from
[U-13C5] glutamine was measured using liquid chromatography coupled
to high resolution mass spectrometry. Additionally, we assessed the
impact of the glutaminase inhibitor CB839 on the relative abundance of
TCA cycle metabolites, histone methylation, expression of trophoblast
differentiation markers, and organoid formation. We compared outcomes
between groups using ANOVA.
Results: When treated with [U-13C5] glutamine, ST cells showed increased
13C-enrichment in TCA cycle intermediates compared to SR cells.
Specifically, 80% of α-ketoglutarate and 25% of citrate were 13C enriched
in ST cells compared to 40% α-ketoglutarate and 10% citrate in SR cells
(p<0.01), suggesting a metabolic fuel switch with differentiation. We then
assessed the impact of glutaminase inhibition on cellular metabolism
and found decreased relative abundance of TCA cycle intermediates
citrate, α-ketoglutarate, malate, and fumarate in both SR and ST states
with treatment (p<0.01). This decrease in α-ketoglutarate is associated
with increases in Histone K9 tri-methylation with differentiation, a major
histone regulatory node. Finally, we found that glutaminase inhibition was
associated with increased relative expression of differentiation markers
CGA, HSD11B2, ERVW, and ERVFRD-1 and decreased expression
of TEAD4 by qPCR. These changes were associated with alterations
in organoid formation and morphology, resulting in a 50% decrease in
organoid size (p<0.001).
Conclusion: We identified state-specific differences in glutamine
metabolism and found that glutaminase inhibition decreases the abundance
of TCA cycle metabolites and impairs histone modifications associated
with differentiation. These changes are associated with alterations in gene
expression that contribute to dysregulated organoid formation.
O-140
Aberrant Placental Architecture is Corrected with Repeated
Nanoparticle-Mediated, Trophoblast-Specific hIGF1 Therapy in a
Guinea Pig Model of Fetal Growth Restriction. Baylea Davenport,
Rebecca Wilson, Helen Jones. University of Florida, Gainesville, FL,
United States.
Introduction: Fetal growth restriction (FGR) complicates 10% of all
pregnancies. One of the major causes of FGR is placental insufficiency.
Doppler ultrasound in humans suggest structural deficits in these placentas
and animal models show increased interhaemal distance. We have
developed a nanoparticle-mediated, trophoblast-specific hIGF1 gene
therapy for the correction of placental insufficiency. At mid-pregnancy
we reported decreased interhaemal distance with a single treatment. We
hypothesize repeated treatments will restore labyrinthine architecture
improving oxygen diffusion and relieving back-pressure induced
macrovascular changes.
Methods: Female Dunkin Hartley Guinea Pigs were fed ad libitum
(n=6 dams, ctrl) or at 70% of normal food intake (n=11 dams, MNR)
from 4 weeks prior to mating until GD30, then increased to 90%. At
GD~35, 43, and 51, animals received ultrasound-guided intra-placental
injections of nanoparticles containing either antisense (n=6 ctrl-Sham,
n=6 MNR-Sham) or Cyp19-IGF1 (n=5 dams, MNR+IGF1). Fetuses and
placentas were collected and weighed at GD~59. Placentas were stained
with Lugol’s iodine for DiceCT (diffusible iodine contrast enhanced
computed tomography) and scanned with a GE nanoCT. CT projections
were 3D rendered and Volume Graphics software was used to segment the
macrovasculature of the labyrinthine lobules. Immunohistochemistry for
cytokeratin and vimentin identified trophoblast and placental capillaries
respectively to assess labyrinth architecture using a Merz grid and lumen
counting. Generalized estimating equations were used to determine
significant differences between diet and/or nanoparticle treatment.
Significance was assigned to a P value ≤0.05
Results: CT segmentation of the macrovasculature revealed surface area,
but not volume was significantly increased in MNR placentas compared
to both Control and MNR+IGF1 (p<0.05). Trophoblast volume in the
exchange area in MNR reflected that of the Control and MNR+IGF1
groups. Maternal blood space volume was significantly reduced (p<0.001)
in MNR compared to Control but not changed in MNR+IGF1 vs Control.
Placental capillary count was also significantly decreased (p<0.001)
in MNR vs Control and MNR+IGF1, while there was no difference in
MNR+IGF1 compared to Control.
Conclusion: MNR placentas have maldeveloped labyrinthine exchange
areas compared to Control placentas. This disruption likely leads to
dilation of the macrovasculature of the labyrinthine lobules due to back
pressure. Nanoparticle-mediated hIGF1 delivery, however, corrects this
aberrant architecture and restores the macrovasculature. Alleviation of
these structural alterations are likely key to the correction of placental
insufficiency which leads to improved growth with this hIGF1 treatment.
O-141
Trophoblast Stem Cell Macrophage Co-Culture Model of the Maternal
Fetal Interface Closely Resembles Primary Tissue Explant Model.
Caroline Smith†,1,2 Rebecca Zack†,1,2 Emale El Darzi,2 Taylor Snisky,2
Christina Megli∗.1,2,3 1University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,
Pittsburgh, PA, United States; 2Magee Women’s Research Institute,
Pittsburgh, PA, United States; 3UPMC Magee-Womens Hospital, Pittsburgh,
PA, United States.
Introduction: The maternal fetal interface plays a crucial role in
sustaining healthy pregnancies and dysfunction can lead to poor outcomes.
Currently, there are limited in vitro assays to investigate the role that
immune cells play in this complex tissue. The newly developed Okae
trophoblast stem cell line, presents a unique opportunity to investigate the
cellular communication between macrophages and the trophoblast. Here
we aim to investigate trophoblast-macrophage interactions and compare
heterocellular models with primary placental tissue explants.
Methods: Fresh placental tissue was collected from unlabored cesarean
sections through the MOMI biobank, dissected into chorionic villi, and
used to develop placental conditioned media (PCM). Supernatants were
collected from BeWo cells (BWCM) and from Okae CT27 cell line
polarized to cytotrophoblasts and syncytiotrophoblast (CT27 Cyt CM,
CT27 SYN CM). CM was incubated with THP-1 derived macrophages.
Macrophage migration response to CM was conducted using 3uM
transwells. Migrated cells counted after 48 hours. Macrophage facilitated
wound healing was assayed through a co-culture using 0.4uM transwells
with macrophages on the apical portion of the transwell and BeWo or CT27
monolayers in the bottom of the well. Scratch distances were measured
after 72 hours. Macrophages were directly co-cultured with BeWo or CT27
trophoblasts to generate heterocellular models. For 3D organoid models,
appropriately polarized organoids were generated as previously described
( Zhou et al 2023) with macrophages added on Day 3 of culture. Culture
supernatants were collected and analyzed by ELISA. Student’s t-test in
GraphPad Prism was used to compare data.
Results: CT27 Cyt, CT27 Syn and PCM stimulate significant macrophage
migration, however (BWCOM) does not facilitate significant migration in
vitro. Okae cytotrophoblast cells promote macrophage facilitated wound
healing of the cell monolayer. However, wound healing facilitation by
macrophages for BeWo cells requires the addition of PCM. 2D and 3D
heterocellular models with direct co-culture of Okae CT27 trophoblasts
96A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
and macrophages do not reduce trophoblast viability. Co-culture and
organoid models facilitate amphiregulin and CCL-20 secretion, seen in
PCM, but not with BeWo models.
Conclusion: Trophoblast stem cells lead to myeloid cell migration and
facilitation of wound healing without the need for additional placental
secreted factors and facilitate similar cytokine profiling to primary explant
models. Our data suggest that they may better recapitulate the trophoblastmacrophage
communication seen at the maternal-fetal interface with
similarities to intact placental explants.
O-142
Mechanosensitive PIEZO1 Channel Regulates Trophoblast
Differentiation and Placental Development. Yang Zhang†, Ke Shan†,
Pengfei Liang†, Huanghe Yang∗. Duke University Medical Center, Durham,
NC, United States.
Introduction: Mechanical forces play crucial roles in organ development
and morphogenesis, including the placenta. How forces shapes trophoblast
differentiation and placental development remains largely unexplored.
PIEZO1 is a mechanosensitive and calcium permeable ion channel. Both
global and endothelial-specific knockout mice lacking PIEZO1 exhibit
embryonic lethality due to angiogenesis defect. Interestingly, we have
found that PIEZO1 is also highly expressed in human trophoblasts. This
study aims to dissect its role in regulating trophoblast differentiation and
promoting placental development.
Methods: In vivo, we generated trophoblast-specific PIEZO1conditional
knockout (cKO) mice and quantified placental fusion and vessel
development. In vitro studies were conducted using BeWo trophoblast
cell line, including calcium imaging, lipid scrambling assay and patch
clamp recording.
Results: PIEZO1 is expressed in human trophoblasts and is predominantly
localized in the SynT-2 layer of the mouse labyrinth. Trophoblast-specific
cKO mice are also embryonically lethal, displaying severe fusion
deficiency in the SynT-2 layer without affecting angiogenesis. This
indicates that the lethality arises from trophoblast-specific defects rather
than vascular abnormalities. In vitro fusion assays further supported
that inhibition of PIEZO1 via siRNA or pharmacological inhibitors
significantly hinders trophoblast fusion. Building on our previous work,
which identified TMEM16F calcium-activated phospholipid scramblase
as essential for trophoblast syncytialization, we hypothesize that calcium
influx through PIEZO1 activates TMEM16F, thereby facilitating
trophoblast syncytialization. Supporting this hypothesis, imaging and
electrophysiology experiments demonstrated that activation of PIEZO1
triggers TMEM16F activity, indicating functional coupling between
these two proteins.
Conclusion: Our study uncovers a novel biomechanical mechanism
underlying placental development, highlighting the critical role of PIEZO1
in trophoblast syncytialization, which is mediated in part through its
functional coupling with the TMEM16F CaPLSase. This interaction is
essential for normal placental formation and embryonic viability. These
findings open new avenues for understanding the pathophysiology of
placental dysfunction and associated pregnancy complications, such as
preterm birth, intrauterine growth restriction, and preeclampsia.
O-143
Dynamics of Macrophage Polarization Reveal Unique Phenotypes
during Mouse Postpartum Uterine Remodeling. Maria Natalia Chaves
Rivera, Sydney Bell, Abigail Solomon, Aya Tal, Reshef Tal. Yale University,
New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Macrophages (MΦ) play essential roles in uterine
physiology during pregnancy and the postpartum (PP) period. These
cells exhibit distinct M1 (pro-inflammatory) and M2 (anti-inflammatory)
polarization states, the balance of which is key in scarless wound healing
but also in pathological fibrosis. While MΦ are key players in PP uterine
remodeling, their polarization dynamics during this period remain
largely unknown. This study examines uterine MΦ polarization profiles
and dynamics in the PP period and compares them to the non-pregnant
(NP) uterus.
Methods: Uterus and spleen tissues were collected from C57BL/6J wildtype
mice at various PP days (PPD 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, 28) and NP controls.
Multicolor flow cytometry was used to analyze immune populations and
macrophage polarization states. Leukocytes were gated as CD45+, with
T cells and granulocytes differentiated by CD3 and Ly6G expression,
respectively. Myeloid cells were gated as CD11b+CD3-Ly6G-, with
macrophages gated as F4/80+ within this population. Macrophage
polarization was determined using CD86 (M1 marker) and CD206 (M2
marker). Immunofluorescence (IF) and immunohistochemistry (IHC)
were used to examine the colocalization of M1 and/or M2 markers
alongside F4/80 to corroborate MΦ polarization status and assess their
tissue distribution.
Results: On PPD1, uterine MΦ (F4/80+) numbers were higher compared
to all other time points, with significantly increased M2 (CD86-CD206+)
MΦ (43% p<0.001) compared to PPD3 (1.8%), PPD7 (0.9%), PPD14
(0.9%) and NP (2%). A rapid polarization shift to M1 (CD86+CD206-)
MΦ occurred on PPD3 (63.6%), PPD7 (66.9%), and PPD14 (73.5%)
compared to PPD1 (11.9% p<0.001). Additionally, there was a trend of
increased M2 MΦ on PPD21 (11.7%) and PPD28 (7.2%). We observed
a unique macrophage population of mixed phenotype (co-expressing
CD86+CD206+) significantly higher on PPD 1 (37.2% p<0.05)
compared to NP (7.1%), PPD7 (13.3%), and PPD14 (14.5%), followed
by a significant increase on PPD21 (37.2%, p<0.05) and PPD28 (40.4%
p<0.05). IF co-staining confirmed these dynamics, showing the majority
of F4/80+ MΦ co-expressing CD206 on PPD1 (80%), significantly
higher than all other time points. IHC revealed the specific localization of
CD206+ M2 MΦ mostly within the uterine endometrial stroma adjacent
to the myometrial junction.
Conclusion: The predominance of M2-polarized MΦ on PPD1 followed
by a rapid shift to M1 phenotype from PPD3 to PPD14 indicates an
evolving inflammatory response during the early PP. Repolarization to
M2 profile on PPD21 and PPD28, along with increased abundance of a
mixed population (M1/M2) uncover the complexity of MΦ polarization
during PP uterine remodeling, providing new insights into scarless uterine
tissue repair. Ongoing studies aim to elucidate the molecular and cellular
signals governing these dynamics.
O-144
Progesterone-Mediated Differentiation of Uterine Tissue-Resident
NK Cells. Dorothy K. Sojka∗, Bruna K. Tatematsu†. Loyola University
Chicago, Maywood, IL, United States.
Introduction: Innate lymphoid cells (ILC) are important in mucosal
sites for tissue homeostasis, repair, and provide immunity against
local pathogens. Emerging evidence suggests that ILCs can respond to
environmental cues, such as ovarian hormones, changing its function.
The murine uterus contains conventional natural killer (cNK) cells and
tissue-resident NK (trNK) cells, both vary in number and frequency
during the estrous cycle. The trNK cells express the tissue residency
receptor CD49a while the cNK cells lack expression. However, the signals
regulating the tissue residency and function of trNK cells in the uterine
tissue remains unknown. Here, we addressed the origin of uterine trNK
cells and the influence of ovarian hormones on their local activation and
differentiation in vivo.
Methods: We used parabiosed mice in combination with intravascular
fluorescent antibody labeling and high-dimensional spectral flow
cytometry to distinguish tissue-resident from circulating immune cells.
Additionally, we used C57BL/6J ovariectomized (OVX) and non-OVX
mice supplemented with ovarian hormones to assess their effects on
uterine trNK cell function.
Results: Mice OVX at three weeks (sexually immature) and analyzed
at seven weeks (sexually mature) did not have trNK cells in the uterus,
unless progesterone was administered. Our parabiosis studies confirmed
that the progesterone-responsive trNK cells are derived from peripheral
cNK cells that require TGF-β signaling for the upregulation of CD49a.
OVX or non-OVX mice treated with progestin had expansion of uterine
trNK cells, not observed in distal sites such as the spleen, mammary
gland, ovaries, oviduct, and cervix. Moreover, progestin induced the
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 97A
Saturday Orals
expansion of uterine trNK cells which was abrogated with P4 antagonist.
Furthermore, mice lacking progesterone receptor on NK cells, revealed a
missing subset of uterine trNK cells.
Conclusion: Our studies indicate that uterine-specific trNK cell
differentiation is tightly regulated by P4 and TGF-β during the female
reproductive lifespan.
O-145
Extracellular Vesicles from Human Semen Induce Emigration and
Phenotypic Changes of Mucosal Dendritic Cells, and Shape Regulatory
T Cell Differentiation. Shahrokh Paktinat†, Michael G. Gravett∗, Cara
Tobey†, Germán G. Gornalusse∗, Maryam Kalatehjari†, Florian Hladik∗,
Lucia Vojtech∗. University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States.
Introduction: The regulation of immune responses to the fetus is critical
for successful pregnancy. Disruptions of immunoregulation contribute to
complications such as miscarriage and preeclampsia. An understudied
aspect of this process is the initiation of tolerance during pre-conception
via exposure to semen. Both cell-free semen fluid and semen associated
extracellular vesicles (SEV), which are present in high concentration,
possess potent immune modulatory properties. Our study aimed to
understand how cell-free semen impacts recipient mucosal dendritic cells
(DCs) and how these DCs subsequently shape CD4+ T cell differentiation.
Methods: Vaginal tissues were collected from patients undergoing repair
surgeries (5 donors). Punch biopsies of 5 mm diameter were taken from the
tissue and treated with dispase to separate the epithelial sheets. To assess
cell migration, an equal number of sheets were placed onto cell culture
inserts and exposed to SEV or vesicle-depleted semen plasma (VDSP)
from healthy semen donors, or cell culture medium alone (control).
We quantified the absolute number of cells migrating out of the biopsy
sections and analyzed phenotypic and functional marker changes in the
cells using high parameter flow cytometry. Next, we tested how SEV- or
VDSP-exposed DCs altered CD4+ T cell differentiation by co-culturing
the emigrated cells with naïve CD4+ T cells from the same donors for two
weeks and immunophenotyping them by flow cytometry.
Results: Significantly more DCs migrated from SEV-treated compared to
media-control tissues (p < 0.05, one-tailed paired T tests). VDSP-treated
tissue showed a similar behavior to the control. Among the emigrated
DCs, we found a higher proportion of CD141+CD1c+ DCs following SEV
treatment compared to control (p < 0.05, one-tailed paired T test); this
DC phenotype has been suggested to have a strong capacity to home to
lymph nodes. Lymphocytes and other cell types did not show increased
migration from SEV or VDSP-treated tissues. DCs from SEV-treated
tissues showed an approximately 1.5-fold increase in the expression
of IDO, a key contributor to regulatory T cells (Tregs) induction, and
increased expression of CD1a, CD86 and TIM3 compared to control
(p < 0.05 for all markers). In mixed cultures of SEV-exposed cells with
autologous naïve CD4+ T cells, an approximately 4-fold more FOXP3+
Tregs expressing high levels of TIGIT were present at the end of the coculture
period compared to control (p < 0.05).
Conclusion: Exposure of vaginal mucosa to SEV enhances the
migration of DCs with tolerogenic properties, which in turn polarize
the differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into a unique Treg lineage. Our
study reveals how SEV may contribute to pregnancy tolerance in vivo.
O-146
Identification of ALDH1A1+ Cells as Endometrial Progenitors with
Long-Term Regenerative Capacity. Diana Monsivais∗, Suni Tang, Anna
Catherine Unser, Ting Geng, Zian Liao, Sydney Parks, Peixin Jiang, Linda
Alpuing Radilla, Xiaoming Guan. Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
TX, United States.
Introduction: The regenerative potential of the endometrium is attributed
to the presence of stem cells which are required to repopulate the
endometrium after menstruation and throughout the reproductive lifespan.
We previously identified that endometrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 1A1+
(ALDH1A1+) cells have a dynamic expression pattern during postnatal
endometrial development and although they are expressed throughout the
endometrial epithelium of postnatal mice, their expression is restricted
to the tips of glandular crypts at postnatal day (PND) 21. Given this
expression pattern and their enrichment in the basalis human endometrium,
we hypothesized that ALDH1A1+ cells are endometrial progenitors that
are critical for endometrial regeneration in the adult.
Methods: Aldh1a1cre/ERT2;ROSA26tdTomato mice were used to perform lineage
tracing. Organoid formation and transcriptomic profiles were evaluated
with the ALDEFLOUR assay. Mice harboring a conditional diphtheria
toxin receptor (DTRflox/flox) were used to selectively ablate ALDH1A1-
expressing cells. The effect of steroid hormones on ALDH1A1 expression
and localization was used in ovariectomized mice treated with estrogen
(E2) and progesterone (P4).
Results: Lineage tracing with the ALDH1A1-reporter mouse showed
that ALDH1A1+ cells locate to the endometrial glandular and luminal
epithelium, indicating that they are long-term progenitors of the
endometrium. Compared to ALDHLO cells, organoid formation assays
showed that ALDHHI cells have a higher organoid formation rate and
give rise to organoids with a larger perimeter and area. Transcriptomic
profiling of these organoids shows that ALDHHI cells express more
genes that are classified as “ciliated, chemotaxis,” suggesting that they
are more stem-like than ALDHLO cells. Selective ablation of ALDH1A1+
cells with DT in the Aldh1a1cre/ERT2; ROSA26-DTRflox/flox model resulted
in organoid death. In the adult mouse uterus, localization of ALDH1A1+
cells varied according to the estrous cycle and could be modulated with
hormonal treatment.
Conclusion: Using lineage tracing studies, organoid formation assays
and DT-mediated ablation in mouse models, we show that ALDH1A1+
cells are long-term progenitors of the endometrial epithelium and are
required for epithelial organoid proliferation and growth. Organoid and
transcriptomic studies show that ALDHHI cells are more proliferative and
give rise to larger organoids with stem-like transcriptomic profiles. Studies
in the adult mouse show that ALDH1A1+ cell expansion and differentiation
are E2 and P4-dependent. Studies supported by NICHD R00 HD096057,
R01 HD105800 and the Burroughs Wellcome Fund.
O-147
Understanding the Contribution of Mesenchymal-Epithelial Transition
to Postpartum Endometrial Repair. Zidao Wang, Amanda Patterson.
University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States.
Introduction: In humans, endometrial regeneration ensues during
menstruation and following parturition after a portion of the endometrium
is shed. Of importance is re-epithelialization of the denuded luminal
surface to restore the barrier of the endometrium. As a proposed
mechanism of re-epithelialization, mesenchymal-epithelial transition
(MET) is of interest as MET is exploited by cancer but occurs under nonpathological
conditions in the adult endometrium. In this study, our goals
were to 1) determine if mesenchyme derived (MD) epithelial cells are bona
fide endometrial epithelial cells and 2) investigate the mechanisms of MET.
Methods: We used a tamoxifen (tam)-inducible lineage-tracing mouse
model (Pdgfrα-CreERT2; Rosa26-tdTomato) to investigate the role of
endometrial mesenchymal cells in re-epithelialization via MET during
postpartum endometrial regeneration. After tam induction and a 4-week
washout, adult females were mated and uteri collected at embryonic day
(E) 18.5, postpartum days (PPD) 1, 2, 3, 4, and 28, and from nulliparous
females.
Results: We first determined the basal level of MD epithelial cells
present during the estrous cycle in nulliparous mice. During endometrial
regeneration, the percentage of MD epithelial cells (EpCAM+tdTom+)
increased from E18.5 to PPD1, peaked at PPD2, declined to PPD4,
and reached basal levels by PPD28. These data indicate MET occurs
during the first 2 days of postpartum endometrial re-epithelialization
and resulting MD epithelial cells are rapidly replaced as regeneration is
completed. We then performed snRNA-Seq and classified major cell types
including mesenchymal, epithelial (luminal and glandular), endothelial,
perivascular, myometrial, and immune. Importantly, a unique population
was identified as “transitional cells” expressing mesenchymal and
epithelial markers. Gene Ontology analysis indicated enrichment of genes
associated with MET. Further, mesenchymal gene networks were down
regulated from E18.5 to PPD28, and epithelial gene networks from were
up regulated E18.5 to PPD1, followed by a decline from PPD2 onward.
98A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
This coincides with cells undergoing MET resulting in the increase in
MD epithelial cells from PPD1 to PPD2. Trajectory inference revealed
roots in mesenchymal populations through transitional to MD epithelial
cells. Lastly, ligand-receptor analysis revealed that EPH, WNT and BMP
pathways were activated with prominent signaling between transitional
and MD epithelial cells.
Conclusion: These data suggest that MD epithelial cells are not bona
fide endometrial epithelial cells, but rather a transient population for the
rapid restoration of the denuded epithelium. This study not only confirms
MET during endometrial regeneration but also provides insights of an
orchestrated signaling network underlying this process and how derailed
MET may lead to endometrial diseases.
O-148
Profiling the Transcellular Biosynthesis of Specialized Pro-Resolving
Inflammatory Mediators (SPMs) Across Human Endometrial Health
and Disease. Mariana Alonso-Riquelme†,1 Elizabeth E Marr†,1 Peter R
Movilla,2 Mollie A O’Brien,2 Juan S Gnecco∗.1 1Tufts University, Medford,
MA, United States; 2Newton Wellesley Hospital, Newton, MA, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is a chronic inflammatory disease
affecting over 190 million individuals globally. Dysregulation of proinflammatory
networks significantly contributes to its pathogenesis and
symptoms, such as severe, chronic pelvic pain; however, the underlying
mechanisms remain elusive. Specialized pro-resolving mediators (SPMs)
are lipid-derived molecules responsible for mediating the resolution of
inflammation and restoring tissue homeostasis. Whether SPMs play a role
in endometrial health remains largely unexplored.
Methods: This study examines the interplay between sex steroid hormones
(estradiol E2 and progesterone P4) in arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism
and SPM biosynthesis. We test the hypothesis that P4-driven SPM
production is responsible for the timely resolution of acute inflammation
in the human endometrium. Utilizing a synthetic polyethylene glycol
(PEG)-based matrix and patient-derived endometrial organoid in vitro
models, we characterized the expression of SPM-associated lipoxygenase
(ALOX) enzymes, receptors, and metabolites across the menstrual cycle.
These analyses involved transcriptomic, immunostaining, and lipidomic
approaches under hormonal and inflammatory stimulations (interleukin-
1β, IL-1β, 10 ng/mL).
Results: Temporal and spatial expression patterns were observed
differentially across immune, endometrial epithelial, and stromal cell
populations. We identified that P4, but not E2, robustly impacted the
activation of ALOX5, -15-1, and -12 enzymes in the stroma, as noted
by the perinuclear translocation of ALOX15-1 which coincided with a
marked increased production of 5-, 15-, and 12-HETEs (AA metabolites)
in lipidomic analysis. Interestingly, lipoxins (LXA4 and LXB4), a class
of SPMs previously identified in the endometrium, were not detected
in monocultures. However, their presence emerged in co-cultures with
epithelial organoids, highlighting the necessity of transcellular crosstalk
in SPM biosynthesis. Furthermore, challenges with IL-1β downregulated
the expression of lipoxins and disrupted the localization of SPM receptors
FPR2 and GPR18. Finally, we show that exogenous exposure to lipoxins
LXA4 and LXB4 can directly modulate inflammatory responses in vitro
and have the potential to restore P4-sensitivity in endometriotic stroma,
emphasizing their role in endometrial health and disease.
Conclusion: These findings reveal potential cell-specific mechanisms of
SPM biosynthesis in the endometrium, which are driven by P4 signaling
and play a role in the timing of inflammation resolution. Targeting
these pathways offers a promising therapeutic approach for managing
endometriosis, where inflammation resolution is disrupted.
O-149
Toll-Like Receptor 9 Activation Induces Pregnancy and Vascular Bed-
Specific Endothelial Dysfunction in Rats. Nataliia Hula†,1 Renee Oliveira
da Silva†,1 Desirae Escalera†,1 Isabelle K. Gorham,2 Nicole R Phillips,2
Styliani Goulopoulou.1 1Loma Linda University School of Medicine, Loma
Linda, CA, United States; 2University of North Texas Health Science
Center, Fort Worth, TX, United States.
Introduction: Circulating cell-free mitochondrial DNA (ccf-mtDNA) are
damage-associated molecular patterns recognized by pattern recognition
receptor Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR-9) and inducing systemic inflammation.
Aberrant changes in ccf-mtDNA concentrations during pregnancy
are associated with preeclampsia, which is characterized by systemic
inflammation and vascular dysfunction. Here, we tested the hypothesis
that ccf-mtDNA induces pregnancy and vascular bed specific dysfunction,
which is mediated by TLR9 signaling.
Methods: Pregnant (gestational day: 14-15; term=22 days) and nonpregnant
Sprague-Dawley rats were treated iv with saline or mtDNA (300
μg/kg) isolated from rat liver. A subgroup of pregnant rats was treated with
mtDNA+ODN2088 (ODN2088: Toll-like receptor 9 antagonist, 60 μg/
kg). Thoracic aortic (n=5-6 rats/group) and uterine artery (6-7 rats/group)
rings were isolated 4 h post injection and vascular responses were assessed
with pin and wire myography. Endothelium-dependent dilation and
vascular smooth muscle cell contraction were tested with concentration
response curves to acetylcholine (ACh) and potassium chloride (KCl),
respectively. Emax (maximum vasodilatory response as %Phenylephrinemax)
were calculated and compared by t-test or one way ANOVA.
Results: ACh-mediated vasodilation was reduced in aortas from mtDNA
treated pregnant rats (Emax, saline: 90.6±1.8% vs mtDNA: 67.3±8.8%;
p=0.04) but not in non-pregnant rats (Emax, saline: 98.08±0.32% vs
mtDNA: 93.44±2.16%; p>0.05). Co-treatment with ODN2088 prevented
mtDNA-induced reductions in endothelium-dependent vasodilation in
aortas from pregnant rats (Emax, saline: 90.6±1.8% vs mtDNA+ODN2088:
82.2±1.7%; Dunnett’s post hoc test, p>0.05). In contrast to aortic
responses, mtDNA did not alter ACh-mediated vasodilation in uterine
arteries (Emax saline: 91.7±3.43% vs mtDNA: 83.9±4.9%; p>0.05) from
pregnant rats. KCl-mediated vasoconstriction was similar between saline
and mtDNA-treated pregnant groups in aorta (Emax, saline: 24.9±1.9 mN vs
mtDNA: 28.2±1.4 mN; p>0.05) and uterine arteries (Emax, saline: 21.1±1.3
mN vs mtDNA: 17.7±2.2 mN; p>0.05).
Conclusion: An acute ccf-mtDNA challenge during pregnancy induces
aortic endothelial dysfunction, which is mediated at least in part by
TLR9 signaling. These effects are pregnancy and vascular bed specific,
suggesting that pregnancy may increase sensitivity to damage-associated
molecular patterns in non-reproductive vascular beds, while reproductive
vascular beds demonstrate resistance to these inflammatory triggers.
Funding: NIH R01-HL0146562, 24POST1198395, 24POST1198627.
O-150
Systemic Immune Dysregulation Induced by Preeclampsia Persists
Years After Delivery. Maximilian Sabayev†,1,1 Dorien Feyaerts,1 Ganio A
Edward,1 Stelzer Ina,1,2 Masaki Sato,1 Amelie Cambriel,1 Thomas Bonham,1
Zala N Mihalic,1,3 Maïgane Diop,1 Purnima Iyer,1 Oshra Sedan,1 Nima
Aghaeepour,1,1,1 Martin Angst,1 Gary M Shaw,1 David K Stevenson,1 Mark
A Hlatky∗,1 Virginia D Winn∗,1 Brice Gaudillière∗.1 1Stanford University,
Stanford, CA, United States; 2University of California San Diego, San
Diego, CA, United States; 3Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE), affecting 5-8% of all pregnancies,
is a leading cause of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality.
While the clinical manifestations of PE typically resolve shortly after
delivery, women with a history of PE face a significantly increased risk of
developing cardiovascular disease (CVD) later in life. PE is characterized
by immune dysregulation and inflammation, raising the question of
whether these immune disturbances persist postpartum and contribute to
the long-term CVD risk.
Methods: Here, a single-cell mass cytometry approach was employed
to quantify over 2,200 phenotypic and functional immune cell features,
including cell frequencies, endogenous signaling activities, and signaling
responses to inflammatory ligands in maternal blood collected at three time
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 99A
Saturday Orals
points: 1) at time of PE diagnosis (prospective antepartum; NPE = 25, Ncontrol
= 31; gestational-age matched); 2) 6-52 weeks postpartum (prospective
postpartum; NPE = 45, Ncontrol = 41); and 3) 2-20 years post PE/pregnancy
(midlife; NPE = 71, Ncontrol = 74). A multivariable sparse machine learning
method with artificial noise injection and data-driven feature selection
was utilized to analyze the high dimensional data. Model performance
was assessed by cross-validation and quantified using the Area Under the
Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve (AUROC).
Results: Multivariable sparse models accurately distinguished PE cases
from controls antepartum (AUROC = 0.8), postpartum (AUROC = 0.76),
and in midlife (AUROC = 0.68). Examination of selected features revealed
consistently decreased CXCR4 expression by adaptive and innate immune
cells to IL18 stimulation in PE cases in the antepartum and postpartum
period, while midlife cases showed a dampened pERK1/2 and pCREB
response in neutrophils to LPS stimulation. Models trained on antepartum
samples could predict outcomes of postpartum cases (AUROC = 0.68),
while showing low performance to predict midlife cases (AUROC = 0.55).
Conclusion: The results reveal a persistent but changing immune signature
of PE detectable for years after delivery. Further studies will be critical
to determine whether this persistent immune dysregulation increases
maternal CVD risk and could be targeted to mitigate this risk.
O-151
First Trimester Molecular Signature of Early Onset Preeclampsia
in Plasma Cell-Free RNA Based on Decidualization Resistance. N
Castillo-Marco†,1 M Igual,1 T Cordero,1 D Ferri,1 N Bernat-González,1
Á Gaspar-Gómez,1 I Muñoz-Blat,1 R Monfort,2 PREMOM consortium,
C Simón,1,3,4,5 T Garrido-Gómez.1,3 1Carlos Simon Foundation, Valencia,
Spain; 2La Fe Hospital, Valencia, Spain; 3INCLIVA, Valencia, Spain;
4Valencia University, Valencia, Spain; 5Harvard University, Boston, MA,
United States.
Introduction: Plasma cell-free RNA (cfRNA) is a promising non-invasive
tool for pregnancy monitoring, but clinical translation remains in progress.
Recently, we mapped endometrial decidualization resistance (DR) in
severe preeclampsia (PE) patients at multi-omic level1. We conducted a
prospective study to identify a DR signature in the cfRNA that predicts
early onset PE (EOPE) in the first trimester of pregnancy.
Methods: A prospective and longitudinal study was conducted in
14 tertiary hospitals in Spain (PREMOM, NCT04990141) to collect
peripheral blood samples from pregnant women at 9-14 weeks’ gestation.
In total, 9,587 women were enrolled and 42 developed EOPE. The study
cohort included the 42 EOPE and 75 matched normotensive women
without obstetric complications as controls. Blood samples were processed
to isolate and sequence cfRNA using Illumina technology according to
the manufacturer’s protocol. The cohort was split into discovery (75%)
and validation (25%) sets to develop and validate the predictive model.
Feature selection included our published single-cell RNAseq dataset
mapping DR1 and permutation analysis to select the best genes for
stratifying endometrial samples into PE/control groups. We then apply
machine learning algorithms using the DR genes and cfRNA data to
develop a predictive model. To improve this model, we perform differential
abundance analysis comparing the cfRNA profile of EOPE vs. controls,
coupled with deep learning algorithms.
Results: A total of 2,184 DR genes were identified as relevant for
stratifying severe PE and controls in endometrial samples. These DR
genes were present in the cfRNA from plasma samples and used it as
input in machine learning to select the 23 best predictors. Differential
abundance analysis identified 10,000 candidate cfRNAs ranked by p-value
and refined by deep learning to 7 predictive transcripts. The final model,
comprising 30 cfRNA transcripts, was validated with 88% sensitivity,
70% specificity, and a 76% AUC, using first-trimester blood samples
(average of 18 weeks before clinical diagnosis), outperforming current
state of the art diagnostic methods.
Conclusion: We present a cfRNA-based predictive model to identify
women at risk of EOPE in the first trimester, up to four months before
symptoms. A single blood test minimizes bias from varying clinical
parameters, enhancing reliability. Notably, the cfRNA signature is linked
to transcripts associated with DR, reinforcing the maternal contribution
to EOPE.
1Mapping Decidualization Resistance in Former Severe Preeclampsia
Patients at Multi-Omic Levels. Accepted by Nat Med. Oct. 2024.
O-152
Long-Term Cardiovascular Risk in Women with Hypertensive
Pregnancy: Insights from Polygenic Risk Scores. Jaakko S Tyrmi†,1,2
Anna Kivioja,1,3 Elli Toivonen,1,4 Heini Huhtala,1 Tiina Jääskeläinen,5,6
Johannes Kettunen,2 Tanja Saarela∗,1,7 Hannele Laivuori∗.1,4,6,5 1Tampere
University, Tampere, Finland; 2University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland; 3Kanta-
Häme Central Hospital, Hämeenlinna, Finland; 4Tampere University
Hospital, Tampere, Finland; 5University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland;
6University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland;
7Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
Introduction: The association between preeclampsia (PE) and elevated
risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in the following decades is welldocumented.
Recent genome-wide association studies of PE have
implicated several genes previously shown to modulate CVD related traits
highlighting their possible common genetic background. We investigated
how a history of PE, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) and
normotensive pregnancy combined with the polygenic risk scores (PRSs)
for PE (PE-PRS), high systolic blood pressure (SBP-PRS), coronary
artery disease (CAD-PRS) or stroke (stroke-PRS) affects a risk for CVD.
Methods: The study was conducted in the FinnGen cohort of 213 942
Finnish women. A total of 17 916 women with HDP were included
(with a subset of 8858 women with PE) with 196 026 parous controls.
All participants were classified based on their PRS in three groups: low
(<20%), moderate (20-80%) and high (>80%) genetic risk. Women
without hypertensive pregnancy complications and moderate PRSs
served as controls.
Results: Women with a high PE-PRS had in the three groups elevated
risk for CVD: a history of PE HR 1.87 (p-value2x10-16), a history of HDP
HR 2.06 (p-value 2x10-16), a history of normotensive pregnancies, HR
1.07 (p-value<0.001). The risk for CVD was further elevated in women
with a high SBP-PRS: 2.31 (p-value 2x10-16), 2.39 (p-value 2x10-16), 1.32
(p-value 2x10-16), respectively. The trend was similar when combining the
pregnancy history and high CAD- or stroke-PRS. With all tested PRSs,
the role of PE and HDP was more significant compared to the genetic
risk. The risk remained elevated until 80 years of age
Conclusion: In women with a high genetic risk for CVD, a history of PE
or other HDP further increases the risk compared to women with a history
of normotensive pregnancies. If a woman with high genetic risk for CVD
does not develop HDP in her pregnancies, the CVD risk remains close to
those with a moderate genetic risk. With pregnancy history, a genetic risk
evaluated by PRSs may help in risk stratification for CVD.
O-153
Feasibility of Implementing a Standardized Preeclampsia Risk
Screening Tool into the Electronic Medical Record. Daniella Rogerson†,
Carolina Díaz Luévano, Omar Messina, Marni Jacobs, Ayelet Ruppin-
Pham, Maryam Tarsa, Cynthia Gyamfi-Bannerman, E. Nicole Teal∗.
University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, United States.
Introduction: Low dose aspirin (LDA) is the only effective intervention
for preeclampsia (PreE) risk reduction. Despite this, not all eligible
pregnant people are recommended or prescribed LDA. This study seeks
to examine feasibility of implementing a PreE risk screening tool into the
electronic health record to prompt LDA prescription when appropriate,
and to examine the relationship among various sociodemographic factors
and screening rates.
Methods: An Epic SmartPhrase prompting providers to consider PreE
risk factors and LDA eligibility was launched 9/2022. To assess its
feasibility, we conducted a retrospective cohort study of all patients who
delivered at an academic medical center from 7/2023 to 6/2024. These
dates were selected to exclude patients who delivered within one year of
the launch date and could not have been screened. The primary outcome
was feasibility, defined as percentage of patients who delivered each month
100A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
who had been screened. The secondary outcome was association among
sociodemographic characteristics and screening. Chi-square and Student’s
t-tests were used to compare characteristics between screened status,
and multivariable logistic regression determined strength of association.
Logistic regression was used to determine differences in screening rates
over each month.
Results: A total of 4,556 patients met inclusion criteria, of which 2,521
(55.3%) were screened with the PreE risk tool. The screening tool use rate
increased from 46.2% in the first month to 67.4% in the last month of the
study, and the odds of being screened increased 7% for each month the tool
was used (p<0.05). Compared to patients who identified as Non-Hispanic
White, patients who identified as Hispanic/Latino had lower odds of being
screened when adjusting for primary language, insurance payor, BMI, and
maternal age (aOR 0.75, 95% CI 0.62-0.89). Patients who spoke Spanish
or another language were less likely to be screened than English speakers
when adjusting for race/ethnicity, insurance payor, BMI, and maternal age
(aOR 0.51, 95% CI 0.36-0.71 and aOR 0.51, 95% CI 0.36 - 0.73). Lastly,
patients with public insurance were less likely to be screened than those
with private insurance when adjusting for race/ethnicity, primary language,
BMI, and maternal age (aOR 0.83, 95% CI 0.72-0.97).
Conclusion: These findings demonstrate feasibility of implementing an
electronic health record PreE risk screening tool. They also demonstrate
disparities in screening by race/ethnicity, language, and insurance status;
patients who were Hispanic, non-English-speaking, and publicly insured
had significantly lower odds of being appropriately screened. This
highlights an opportunity for process improvement that could reduce
disparities in LDA prescribing.
O-154
Hypertensive Disorders in Pregnancy as Risk Factors for Aortic Valve
Calcification and Aortic Aneurysm in Middle Age; A Swedish Cohort
Study. Karl Bergman†,1,2 Elin Täufer-Cederlöf∗,3 Anna-Karin Wikström∗,3
Lina Bergman∗,4,5,3 Anna Bengtsson∗,6 Linda Lindström∗,3 Susanne
Hesselman∗,3 Christina Christersson∗.3 1Institute of Medicine,University
of Gothenburg, Göteborg, Sweden; 2Faculty of Medicine and Health,
Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa; 3Uppsala University,
Uppsala, Sweden; 4Institute of Clinical Sciences, University of Gothenburg,
Göteborg, Sweden; 5Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa;
6Faculty of Medicine, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.
Introduction: Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) affect
5-10% of pregnancies worldwide and associate with an increased risk of
future cardiovascular disease (CVD). Aortic pathology after HDP is not
previously explored and might be important for future CVD in affected
women. Therefore, we set out to explore aortic valve calcification and
aortic aneurysm in asymptomatic middle-aged women with and without
a history of HDP.
Methods: This study combined data from the prospective nationwide
cohort “Swedish CArdioPulmonary bioImage Study” (SCAPIS) and the
Swedish Medical Birth Register (MBR). Between 2013-2018, SCAPIS
included 15000 asymptomatic women 50-64 years of age. Evaluations
include detailed cardiovascular indicators such as imaging of the aorta and
aortic valve.The exposures HDP (preeclampsia or gestational hypertension
in any pregnancy) were identified by ICD-8, ICD-9 and ICD-10 codes.
Aortic valve calcification was classified according to Agatston Score as
present or not present, and aortic aneurysm as thoracic aortic diameter
>4 cm, both on computed tomography. Risks were calculated with binary
logistic regression analyses and presented as adjusted odds ratios (aOR)
with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Confounders were determined by a
theoretical framework and selected through a directed acyclic graph. Final
set of confounders included BMI at 20 years of age, smoking and diabetes
(type 1 or 2) in first trimester and maternal age at last birth.
Results: After exclusion of 358 women (57 women with chronic
hypertension and 301 women with missing data on outcomes), we included
12 402 parous women from SCAPIS with a registered birth in MBR.
Aortic valve calcification was more common in women with a history
of HDP compared to women with a previous normotensive pregnancy
(61 (8.2%) vs 554 (4.9%), aOR 1.50, 95 % CI 1.10-1.96).There was no
difference in the prevalence of aortic aneurysm between women with a
history of HDP and women with previous normotensive pregnancies (13
(1.7%) vs 179 (1.6%), aOR 1.20, 95% CI 0.68-2.13).
Conclusion: Women with a history of HDP have a 50% increased
likelihood of asymptomatic aortic valve calcification in middle age but
no increased risk of aortic aneurysm. These findings contribute to an
increased understanding about subclinical CVD in women with previous
HDP. Future research should focus on the risk of developing clinically
relevant aortic stenosis and primary preventative strategies after HDP.
O-155
Epithelial Heterogeneity at Single-Cell Resolution of High-Grade
Serous Ovarian Cancer Supports Its Dual Origin. Paula Punzon-
Jimenez†,1 Victor Lago∗,2 Sandra Boldu-Fernandez†,1 Esther Lara-
Cuesta†,1 Lucas Minig∗,3 Carlos Simon∗,1 Aymara Mas∗.1 1Carlos Simon
Foundation, Incliva Health Research Institute, Paterna, Valencia, Spain;
2La Fe University and Polytechnic Hospital, Valencia, Spain; 3IMED
Hospital, Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: The origin of high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma
(HGSOC), the most lethal subtype of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC),
remains debated between the ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) or the
fallopian tubal epithelium (FTE). In this work, we aimed to analyse the
epithelial microenvironment of HGSOC at single-cell resolution to further
understand its possible origin.
Methods: Single-nuclei RNA sequencing analysis was performed on
~274,100 nuclei from 9 HGSOC patients and 8 control individuals.
The 10x Genomics Chromium X protocol was used for nuclei isolation
from FFPE tissues, barcoding, and library preparation, followed by
sequencing on Illumina NovaSeq 6000. FASTQ files were aligned to
10X transcriptome probe sets v1.0 with Cell Ranger v7.1.0. Downstream
analyses for differential gene expression were performed with R tools.
Expressed gene markers were revised and compared with reference
datasets to label major cell types.
Results: We identified epithelium, fibroblasts, endothelium, perivascular,
and immune cells present in both HGSOC and control samples. Given the
epithelial origin of HGSOC, we examined this cluster consisting of three
distinct subtypes: ciliated, secretory, and proliferative epithelium, which
showed greater variation in cell distribution between tumors and controls.
The ciliated epithelium showed increased levels of cilium-associated
markers (CAPS, FOXJ1, or CCDC17) along with secretory cell markers
(OVGP1), and mucosal protection markers (TFF3), and was present
only in controls. The secretory epithelium overexpressed PAX2, PAX8,
KRT7, LGR5, MUC16, and WT1. Among these markers, PAX8 associates
with the transformation of FTE cells into a secretory phenotype, and has
been rarely reported to be expressed in OSE. Conversely, LGR5 was
predominantly found as expressed in OSE, but absent in FTE. Finally,
the proliferative epithelial cell cluster was uniquely present in HGSOC
samples, with higher expression of cell cycle-related genes (CCNE1,
CHEK1/2, MKI67, and MYC). High cycling activity was confirmed by
cell cycle scoring, which revealed two well-defined groups of cells (one
in S- and other in G2-M phase).
Conclusion: Our results reveal at single-cell level a differential epithelial
cluster in HGSOC, composed by the presence of proliferative epithelial
cells and indicative of tumor growth, whereas the secretory epithelium
appear to be fitting to a dual FTE/OSE origin. Our results underscore the
distinct roles of epithelial cell subtypes in HGSOC, contributing to our
knowledge of tumor biology and potential therapeutic targets.
O-156
Neonatal Maternal Separation Induces Myometrial Changes in
a Mouse Model of Early Life Stress Consistent with Leiomyoma
Pathology. Paige M Minchella†, Amanda Graham, Julie A. Christianson,
Warren B. Nothnick∗. University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City,
KS, United States.
Introduction: Early life stress (ELS) has been linked to an increased
risk for reproductive dysfunction and uterine pathology. Despite
increasing epidemiological evidence, little is known about stress-induced
mechanisms or their impact on development/exacerbation of reproductive
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 101A
Saturday Orals
pathologies. To begin to explore this, we used neonatal maternal separation
(NMS), a well-established mouse model of ELS to assess the impact on
uterine development and manifestation of uterine pathology.
Methods: C57BL/6 mice underwent NMS from post-natal days (PND)1-
PND21 for 3 hours a day. Control pups (Naïve) were left undisturbed
in their home cage. Mice in both groups were weaned at PND22 and
observed for onset of vaginal opening each day until evident. Serum and
uterine tissue were collected from a separate group of mice at PND28.
Serum levels of pituitary hormones were assessed with MILLIPLEX
Mouse Pituitary Magnetic Bead Panel. Uterine tissue was subjected to
bulk RNA sequencing to identify differentially expressed genes between
groups. Top DEGs were confirmed by qRT-PCR while localization of
their corresponding protein was achieved using immunohistochemistry,
followed by ImageJ analysis and histological scoring.
Results: Vaginal opening was significantly (P<0.05) delayed in NMS
mice compared to Naïve, with an average age of PND27 and PND30,
respectively, even after factoring in body weight at weaning (N=14/
group). Average serum growth hormone levels were significantly higher
in PND28 NMS mice compared to Naïve (N=7/group, P<0.05). Among
the 51 uterine DEGs discovered by bulk RNA sequencing, collagen type
VI alpha3 (Col6a3) and connexin43 (Gja1) transcripts were significantly
(P<0.05) increased in NMS mice compared to Naïve (2.54-fold and
2.44-fold, respectively). Immunohistochemical localization revealed a
significant (P<0.05) increase in uterine Ki67 expression/cell proliferation
in NMS mice as well as a significant (P<0.05) increase in myometrial
Col6a3 and Gja1 protein expression in NMS uterine tissue compared
to Naïve.
Conclusion: Neonatal maternal separation led to delayed onset of vaginal
opening and an increase in serum growth hormone levels. Cellular
proliferation as well as Col6a3 and Gja1 expression were also increased in
uteri of early adolescent NMS female mice as compared to Naïve controls.
Previous studies investigating Col6a3 and Gja1 highlight their role in
cellular proliferation, malignancy, and leiomyoma. Further investigation
is needed to determine how ELS leads to dysregulation of Col6a3 and
Gja1expression and the biological impact of these over-expressed genes
on uterine physiology and pathology.
O-157
Inhibition of WNT/β-Catenin by Foscenvivint (PRI-724) in Fibroid
Cells Modified the Senescence-Associated Secretory Phenotype
Leading to a Reduction in ECM Proteins. Md Soriful Islam, Valeria
Macri, Joscelyn Mejias, Rachel Michel, Sushma Nagaraj, Katlin Stivers,
Casie Post, Joshua Brennan, Mostafa Borahay, Jennifer Elisseeff, James
Segars∗. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD,
United States.
Introduction: Uterine fibroids are characterized by excessive ECM
deposition and an increased number of senescent cells. Senescent cells
secrete a senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), which
includes cytokines, growth factors, proteases and ECM components
that contribute to tumor growth. While WNT/β-catenin signaling is
dysregulated in fibroids, its contribution to SASP remains unclear. Here,
we tested whether the selective WNT/β-catenin inhibitor, Foscenvivint
(PRI-724), currently in clinical trials, would alter levels of SASP factors
in fibroid cells.
Methods: Primary fibroid and myometrial cells were treated with PRI-
724 (0.3-1.25 μM) for 48 hours. β-catenin, senescence markers (p16,
p21), growth factors (TGFB1, CTGF), ECM proteins (FN1, LAMC1),
and proteases (PAI1) were analyzed by western blot, while COL1A1 was
assessed by immunofluorescence (IF). mRNA expression of SASP factors
was measured by qPCR after 1.25 μM treatment. Data from 2-3 patients
with 4-8 replicates were analyzed using the Mann-Whitney U test, with
significance set at p ≤ 0.05.
Results: PRI-724 reduced β-catenin protein levels by 26.9-54.6%,
confirming its inhibitory action on WNT/β-catenin signaling in fibroid
cells. There were significant reductions in protein levels of p16 (6.7-
40.4%) and p21 (51.5-70%), and a 68% reduction in p16 mRNA and a
1.9-fold increase in p21 mRNA. Additionally, β-galactosidase (GLB1)
mRNA levels were reduced by 50%. PRI-724 also reduced fibrotic growth
factors, TGFB1 (46%) and IGF1 (77%), but increased angiogenic factors
such as VEGFA (2.9-fold) and PDGFA (1.2-fold). Moreover, CTGF protein
levels decreased substantially (76.1-91.8%), signifying a reduction in
fibrotic signaling. FN1 mRNA (41%) and protein (63.7-87.6%) levels,
as well as LAMC1 mRNA (48%) and protein (72.4-91.8%), were also
significantly reduced. Collagen subtypes (COL1A1, COL3A1, COL4A2)
and collagen-synthesizing P4HA1 (66%) and crosslinking enzymes LOX1
(68%) were significantly decreased. Reduced COL1A1 protein expression
was confirmed by IF. ECM remodeling enzymes were also impacted, with
MMP10 (1.8-fold), MMP12 (1.2-fold), and PLAU (2.8-fold) increased,
while MMP3 (45%), PAI1 (51%), and ADAM17 (22%) were reduced. PAI1
protein showed a remarkable reduction (76.7-95.6%). PRI-724 altered
SASP-related cytokine expression, increasing expression of CXCL1 (4.2-
fold), CXCL9 (5.4-fold), CXCL10 (19-fold), and IL8 (2.9-fold), while
MCP1 expression decreased by 51%. Myometrial cells showed similar
responses or varied slightly compared to fibroid cells.
Conclusion: Foscenvivint inhibited WNT/β-catenin signaling and
altered SASP and fibrotic phenotype in uterine fibroid cells. Support:
R01HD111243.
O-158
Telmisartan and VTP-27999 Reduce Endometrial Cancer Cell
Proliferation and Viability. Tess L Symington, Joshua J Fisher, Paul
Tooney, Eugenie R Lumbers, Kirsty G Pringle. University of Newcastle,
Newcastle, Australia.
Introduction: Endometrial cancer is one of the only cancers with an
increasing incidence and mortality rate worldwide. In silico analysis
of the Broad Institute Drug Repurposing Hub data identified several
anti-hypertensive medications that can reduce the viability of common
endometrial cancer cell lines. Two anti-hypertensives of note were
telmisartan, an angiotensin II type I receptor antagonist, and VTP-27999, a
renin antagonist. Renin, the rate-limiting enzyme of the renin-angiotensin
system (RAS), can drive RAS signalling by acting via the angiotensin II
type I receptor to stimulate angiogenesis and cellular proliferation, and
inhibit apoptosis. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the effect of
both telmisartan and VTP-27999 on the growth of endometrial cancer
cells in vitro.
Methods: Ishikawa (Grade I), HEC1A (Grade II), and AN3CA (Grade
III) endometrial cancer cell lines were treated with 100μM of telmisartan
or VTP-27999 for 48hrs in vitro (n=3/per cell line). Cellular proliferation
was monitored using the SX5 Incucyte Live Cell Imager and cell viability
was measured using an MTT assay.
Results: Treatment with 100μM telmisartan or VTP-27999 for 12hrs
significantly reduced the proliferation of Ishikawa cells (p=0.027 and
0.009, respectively) compared with the vehicle control. A significant
decrease in Ishikawa cell proliferation persisted for up to 48hrs with
treatment (both p<0.0001). The proliferation of HEC1A cells was
significantly decreased after 36hrs (p=0.025) of 100μM telmisartan
compared to vehicle control, but did not persist until 48hrs (p=0.061).
Treatment with 100μM VTP-27999 significantly decreased HEC1A
cellular proliferation after 24hrs (p=0.015) and persisted until 48hrs
(p<0.0001) compared to vehicle control. Cellular proliferation of AN3CA
cells was significantly decreased with 100μM telmisartan (p=0.017)
and VTP-27999 (p=0.005) treatment after 12hrs, continuing to 48hrs of
treatment (p=0.005 and p=0.011, respectively) compared with vehicle.
Treatment for 48hrs with 100μM telmisartan or VTP-27999 significantly
decreased cell viability across all cell lines (Ishikawa p=0.006 and
p=0.017, HEC1A p=0.001 and p=0.023, AN3CA p<0.0001 for both,
respectively).
Conclusion: We have successfully shown that both telmisartan and VTP-
27999 are able to slow endometrial cancer cell proliferation and decrease
endometrial cancer cell viability across all cancer grades. Therefore,
telmisartan and VTP-27999 show strong potential to be repurposed for
endometrial cancer treatment to improve clinical outcomes for individuals
who are affected.
102A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
O-159
β-Catenin Mutation is Strongly Associated with Aggressive Metastasis
in Endometrial Cancer via Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition.
Shamsun Nahar†,1 Eunhee M. Jeong,1 Keun Cheon Kim,1 Tae Hoon Kim,1
Russell Broaddus,2 Jae-Wook Jeong.1 1University of Missouri, Columbia,
MO, United States; 2University of North Carolina, , Chapel Hill, NC,
United States.
Introduction: Endometrioid endometrial cancer is the most prevalent
gynecological malignancy. Currently available standard therapies are
ineffective against metastatic and recurrent forms of the disease, which
remain incurable. Exon 3 mutations of CTNNB1 gene, encoding β-catenin,
are linked to poor prognosis in endometrial carcinomas. While PTEN, the
most mutated gene in endometrial cancer, has been extensively studied,
its interplay with CTNNB1 mutations remains underexplored.
Methods: To determine the pathophysiological effect of CTNNB1
mutations in endometrial cancer, we utilized uterine-specific Pten knockout
mice (Pgrcre/+Ptenf/f) and dominant-stabilized mice (Pgrcre/+Ptenf/
fCtnnb1f(ex3)/+). Tumorigenesis was assessed in mutant mice using
histopathological analysis. RNA-seq was performed to identify
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and pathways associated with
CTNNB1 mutations. Immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis was conducted
to evaluate epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers during
tumor progression.
Results: The survival time of Pgrcre/+ Ptenf/fCtnnb1f(ex3)/+ mice was
significantly shorter compared to Pgrcre/+Ptenf/f mice. Histopathological
analysis revealed that Pgrcre/+Ptenf/fCtnnb1f(ex3)/+ mice developed
endometrial cancer with myometrial invasion, unlike Pgrcre/+Ptenf/f
mice observed at 4 weeks of age. By 3-months of age, the Pgrcre/+Ptenf/
fCtnnb1f(ex3)/+ mice exhibited an aggressive metastatic endometrial
adenocarcinoma. RNA-seq analysis identified 3,412 DEGs, with 2,204
upregulated and 1,208 downregulated genes. Ingenuity pathway analysis
identified multiple oncogenic pathways, including WNT/catenin,
PI3K/AKT, basal cell carcinoma, sonic hedgehog, and the epithelialmesenchymal
transition (EMT). Immunohistochemical analysis showed
a remarkable reduction of E-cadherin in Pgrcre/+Ptenf/fCtnnb1f(ex3)/+ mice
compared to Pgrcre/+Ptenf/f mice that is one of the hallmarks of EMT. We
also identified a significant increase of EMT markers such as, SNAI1,
TWIST1, PTCH1, GLI1, and BMP2 in Pgrcre/+Ptenf/fCtnnb1f(ex3)/+ mice
compared to Pgrcre/+Ptenf/f mice.
Conclusion: Our results suggest that CTNNB1 mutations are associated
with worsened survival in endometrial cancer with PTEN deficiency
via epithelial-mesenchymal transition. This study highlights the impact
of exon 3 CTNNB1 mutations in endometrial cancer. This work was
supported by NCI R01CA264944.
O-160
ARID1A/B Mutations Drive Dedifferentiation in Endometrial
Carcinoma by Reshaping the Chromatin Landscape. Jessica D. St
Laurent. Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: Dedifferentiated/undifferentiated endometrial carcinoma
(DDEC/UEC) is an aggressive uterine cancer subtype with a higher
incidence in non-Hispanic Black women. Frequent mutations in ARID1A
and ARID1B, essential for the canonical BAF (cBAF) chromatin
remodeling complex, occur in over 50% of DDEC/UEC and 30% of all
endometrial carcinomas. The mSWI/SNF family of chromatin remodelers
are critical regulators of cell type-specific chromatin accessibility and gene
expression. The paralog subunits, ARID1A and ARID1B, specifically
nucleate the assembly of cBAF complexes. However, the precise role
of ARID1A/ARID1B mutations (cBAF loss) in the development of
dedifferentiated endometrial carcinoma remains unclear.
Methods: To define an expression signature associated with endometrial
"dedifferentiation," we profiled the well-differentiated and dedifferentiated
components of DDEC patient samples with cBAF loss using laser
capture microdissection followed by RNA sequencing. Subsequently,
we reintroduced ARID1A, ARID1B, or both into cBAF loss DDEC cell
lines and assessed the restoration of cBAF assembly through glycerol
gradient centrifugation and immunoprecipitation (IP) mass spectrometry.
Finally, we performed bulk RNA sequencing, Assay for Transposase-
Accessible Chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq), and chromatin
immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) to compare localization,
DNA accessibility and transcriptional profiles in cells with and without
cBAF subunits.
Results: Upon the expression of ARID1A, ARID1B, or both, we observed
widespread chromatin occupancy and DNA accessibility at distinct
paralog-specific sites, along with common sites associated with epithelial
lineage differentiation, estrogen receptor, and PI3K/AKT pathway
signaling. These findings align with the differentiation signature, defined
in DDEC cases demonstrating downregulation of genes associated with
Myc targets, cell cycle checkpoint pathways, and DNA repair. Importantly,
we identified unique genes and accessibility sites associated with each
paralog, highlighting their distinct roles in driving tumorigenesis.
Conclusion: Collectively, these data demonstrate that cBAF loss
underlies a spectrum of endometrial carcinoma, encompassing both welldifferentiated
and dedifferentiated subtypes (DDEC/UEC). These findings
demonstrate that cBAF loss is a key driver of the multifaceted changes
observed in DDEC, including morphological alterations, altered gene
expression, and distinct clinical behaviors. This mechanistic understanding
provides a foundation for developing novel therapeutic strategies.
O-161
First-Trimester Allostatic Load Partially Mediates the Association
Between Neighborhood Deprivation and Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes.
Mitali Ray,1 Reindolf Oppong†,1 Janet Catov,1 Jewel Scott∗.2 1University
of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, United States; 2University of South Carolina,
Columbia, SC, United States.
Introduction: Adverse pregnancy outcomes (APO) are associated
with social drivers of health, including neighborhood deprivation.
Neighborhood deprivation exposes individuals to multiple stressors,
which can amplify chronic stress. One potential mechanism linking
neighborhood deprivation to APO is allostatic load—the cumulative
physiological burden from chronic stress. Thus, we aimed to test the
hypothesis that first-trimester allostatic load mediates the association
between neighborhood deprivation and APO.
Methods: This is a secondary analysis using data from nuMoM2b,
a prospective cohort study of a geographically diverse, nulliparous
population. Our analytical sample (N=4,002) was comprised of
participants who had census tract data available to calculate the area
deprivation index (ADI; national ranking, 2015); pregnancy outcome
data for hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (gestational hypertension,
preeclampsia/eclampsia), preterm birth, small-for-gestational age, and
gestational diabetes; and complete data for the 12 biological components
used to compute first-trimester allostatic load (albumin, BMI, creatinine,
CRP, glucose, HDL, insulin, LDL, systolic and diastolic blood pressures,
total cholesterol, triglycerides; possible range: 0-12). ADI was categorized
by quartiles, and APO status was evaluated as a composite variable.
Allostatic load was computed using the count-based approach. We
performed logistic and linear regressions, and causal inference-based
mediation analysis using the ‘mediation’ R package. Models were adjusted
for participant age and tobacco use.
Results: Greater neighborhood deprivation was significantly associated
with higher first-trimester allostatic load for all groups (β [95% CI] with
ADI Q1 as referent: ADI Q4— 0.32 [0.13 to 0.51]; ADI Q3— 0.39
[0.21 to 0.57]; ADI Q2— 0.24 [0.06 to 0.41]). Participants with greatest
neighborhood deprivation (ADI Quartile [Q] 4) had significantly greater
odds of developing an APO (Odds Ratio [95% CI]: 1.35 [0.10 to 0.50])
than those in the least deprived neighborhood (ADI Q1). There were no
significant associations observed for ADI Q2 or ADI Q3. Comparison of
participants with greatest neighborhood deprivation (Q4) to those with
least neighborhood deprivation (Q1) revealed partial mediation (16.4%)
of the association between neighborhood deprivation and APO status by
first-trimester allostatic load.
Conclusion: Participants with the greatest neighborhood deprivation
had both higher allostatic load and greater odds of APO. Our findings
highlight the role of first-trimester allostatic load as a partial mediator of
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 103A
the association between neighborhood deprivation and APO. The partial
mediation suggests neighborhood deprivation affects APO through both
chronic stress embodiment and other mechanisms.
O-162
Epigenetic Age as a Biomarker for IVF Outcomes: A Potential
Novel Approach to Predicting Fertility Success in Young Infertile
Women. Davide Marinello,1 Marco Reschini,1 Laura Sichenze,1 Roberta
Bellinghieri,1 Bianca Magni,1 Maira Casalechi,1 Valentina Bollati,2 Paola
Vigano’,1 Edgardo Somigliana,1 Letizia Li Piani.2 1Fondazione IRCCS Ca’
Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy; 2Università degli
Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.
Introduction: In the field of in vitro fertilization (IVF), the search for
reliable success predictors is ongoing, with novel biomarkers gaining
increasing attention. Epigenetic clocks, mathematical models based
on DNA methylation patterns, have revolutionized aging research by
providing insights into biological aging, which may not always align with
chronological age. These clocks could potentially offer new insights in the
context of infertility, moving beyond the well-established understanding
that reproductive chances decline with chronological age. However,
evidence in this area remains preliminary. The aim of this study was to
assess whether an existing epigenetic clock model could predict clinical
pregnancy rates in young women undergoing IVF treatments.
Methods: This prospective observational cohort study recruited 124
young women (<37 years) scheduled to begin IVF treatment. On the day of
recruitment, blood samples were collected, and genomic DNA was isolated
from white blood cells. DNA methylation (DNAm) was assessed using
quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Biological age
(DNAm age) was calculated using an algorithm based on the methylation
patterns of 5 CpG sites, following the “Zbieć-Piekarska2” epigeneticage
model. Epigenetic age acceleration (EPA) was estimated from the
residuals of a linear model, with DNAm age regressed on chronological
age. We compared the resulting DNAm age and EPA between women
who achieved a live birth and those who did not, alongside traditional
ovarian reserve parameters (AMH, FSH, and AFC).
Results: Of the 124 patients enrolled, 81 (65%) achieved a live birth.
DNAm age and EPA were found to be more accurate predictors of live
birth than AMH, FSH, and AFC. The ROC analysis showed an Area Under
the Curve (AUC) of 0.63 (95% CI: 0.52-0.74, p=0.018) for DNAm age
and 0.64 (95% CI: 0.54-0.75, p=0.009) for EPA, whereas AMH, FSH,
and AFC performed worse, with AUCs of 0.59 (95% CI: 0.48-0.71,
p=0.091), 0.57 (95% CI: 0.46-0.68, p=0.192), and 0.59 (95% CI: 0.48-
0.70, p=0.101), respectively. A sub-analysis of unexplained infertility
cases in this population revealed an AUC for DNAm age and EPA of 0.69
(95% CI: 0.54-0.85, p=0.032) and 0.68 (95% CI: 0.53-0.83, p=0.045),
once again demonstrating better performance compared to traditional
ovarian reserve parameters.
Conclusion: This study explores the potential of DNAm age as a
predictor of IVF success in a prospective cohort of young infertile women,
particularly those with unexplained infertility. Our findings support the
need for further research in this area and emphasize the importance of
developing epigenetic models specifically tailored to fertility outcomes.
T-001
Parity Influences on the Infant Gut Microbiome Development. Ruhika
Prasad†, Angelina Angelova∗, Poorani Subramanian∗, Shira Levy∗,
Suchitra Hourigan∗. National Institute of Health, Bethesda, MD, United
States.
Introduction: There is evidence to suggest that parity, the number
of pregnancies carried beyond 20 weeks, is a risk factor for preterm
birth and impaired neonatal growth, and more recently can influence
the maternal microbiome. In pig models, increased parity has been
associated with an increased rate of change of maternal gut microbiota
composition. In humans, increased parity has been shown to modulate the
effects of maternal gestational weight gain on the infant microbiome at 6
months. However, whether parity modulates infant microbiome changes
longitudinally remains unclear. Further, the effects of parity on infant
microbiome development after accounting for factors such as peripartum
antibiotic use (pabx) and delivery mode is unexplored.
Methods: 773 maternal-infant dyads were enrolled in a longitudinal cohort
study. Serial stool samples were collected from infants at 2, 6, 12, and 24
months and underwent sequencing of the 16S RNA V4 region. Detailed
clinical data was also collected.
Results: Mothers had a range of parity post-delivery from 1-5 (1=38%,
2= 41%, 3=16%, 4, 5 or 6=5%). Although no differences were found
with parity on alpha diversity, the composition of the microbiome (beta
diversity, Bray-Curtis) significantly differed by parity at 2 and 6 months
(PERMANOVA, p<0.05); no differences were seen at later timepoints.
The relative abundance of 27 taxa differed by parity, including decreased
Bifidobacterium sp and Blautia sp at higher parities (p<0.001). Delivery
mode (vaginal delivery=60%, C-section=40%) was found to be a
significant contributor to infant microbiome composition at 2 months
(PERMANOVA, p=0.001). We found parity significantly affects infant
microbiome composition in vaginally delivered infants (p=0.001),
however with C-section this effect is eliminated. Concurrently, pabx
(received pabx=57%, did not receive pabx=43%), which in addition to
delivery mode also interrupts maternal to infant microbiome transfer, is
a significant contributor to infant microbiome composition (p=0.001).
In mothers without pabx exposure, parity significantly contributed to
infant microbiome composition at 2 months (p=0.038) and 6 months
(p=0.015) but not at later timepoints. No effect of parity was seen in
infant microbiomes from mothers with pabx exposure in early timepoints.
Conclusion: Parity significantly affects infant microbiome composition
early in life. However, the effects of parity are diminished in a C-section
delivery or when pabx are given, likely due to known interruption of
mother to infant microbiome transfer. This demonstrates the necessity of
including parity as a variable to adjust for in longitudinal maternal and
infant microbiome analysis, but more importantly shows how delivery
mode and pabx use may mitigate the effects of parity. Future work is
needed examine the interplay between these maternal factors and their
effects on the infant microbiome.
T-002
Immune Profiling of Women with Preterm Prelabour Rupture of
Membranes. Sihao Zhao†,1 Bianca De Leon,1 Belen Gimeno-Molina,1,2
Sherrianne Ng,1 Gonçalo dos Santos Correia,1 Yun S Lee,1 Anna Merrick,1
Milissa Coker,1 Sanaa Riani-El-Achabb,1 Richard G Brown,1 Tanweer
Beleil,1 David A MacIntyre,1,3 Phillip R Bennett,1 Lynne Sykes.1,2 1March of
Dimes European Prematurity Research Centre, London, United Kingdom;
2The Parasol Foundation Centre for Women’s Health and Cancer Research,
London, United Kingdom; 3Robinson Research Institute, Adelaide,
Australia.
Introduction: Intrauterine infection and inflammation are key drivers
for preterm prelabour rupture of membranes (PPROM) and associate
with worse neonatal and maternal outcomes. Current management is
targeted at reducing prematurity related adverse effects to the neonate.
Balancing a delay in delivery to gain maturity against in utero exposure to
inflammation requires challenging decision making on timing of delivery.
Furthermore, there is no accurate non-invasive tool for diagnosing
histological chorioamnionitis or fetal inflammatory response syndrome.
We hypothesise that the local vaginal immune milieu is more reflective of
the immune milieu at the maternal-fetal interface when compared with the
periphery, and that the immune signature can provide mechanistic insight
and predict latency to delivery, as well as clinical outcomes.
Methods: Following PPROM, cervicovaginal fluid (CVF) and maternal
plasma samples were taken longitudinally on Day 0-1, Day 2-3 and Day
5-7 (n=53). At delivery matched fetal membranes (n=29) were collected
in addition to CVF and plasma. Concentrations of pro-inflammatory
cytokines (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-8) and complement proteins (C1q, MBL, Factor
B, Factor D, C3, C3a, C3b, C5, C5a and Factor H) were quantified for
each compartment and correlated to clinical outcomes.
Results: Samples collected at the time of PPROM revealed a significant
negative correlation between CVF IL-6 (P<0.01), IL-1β and IL-8 (P<0.05),
C3b, C5, C5a and Factor H (P<0.05) and the gestational age of PPROM. A
104A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
significant negative correlation was also seen between CVF IL-6, IL-1β,
IL-8, C3b and C5a levels and the gestational age at delivery, with levels
highest in those that delivered at <24+0 weeks. No such correlation was
found in the plasma. A shorter latency to delivery correlated with higher
concentrations of CVF IL-6, IL-1β and IL-8 (P<0.01, <0.05, <0.05), C1q
(P<0.0001), C3a, C5, C5a (P<0.001), Factor H, MBL, C3b (P<0.01) and
Factor D (P<0.05). A negative correlation was seen only with IL-6 in the
plasma (P<0.01).
Conclusion: A more significant pro-inflammatory immune signature is
seen at the cervicovaginal interface in association with PPROM and birth
at earlier gestational ages, supporting a more significant role for ascending
infection and inflammation in earlier compared with later gestational ages.
Future work will correlate cervicovaginal and fetal membrane immune and
microbial signatures with both maternal and neonatal outcomes to develop
a tool to tailor management and improve maternal and neonatal outcomes.
T-003
Regulation of AKR1C1 Expression in Decidual Stromal Cells. Angela
DeTomaso†,1 Anika Adulla†,1 Ramkumar Menon∗,2 John Moore∗,1 Sam
Mesiano∗.1 1Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, United
States; 2University of Texas, Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, United States.
Introduction: The steroid hormone progesterone (P4), acting via the
nuclear P4 receptors (PRs) in decidual stromal cells (DSCs) is essential
for pregnancy establishment and maintenance, and loss of P4/PR signaling
induces parturition. To trigger parturition, P4 activity can be withdrawn
via its metabolism to an inactive form by the aldo-keto reductase 1C1
(AKR1C1) enzyme, thereby starving the PR of P4 ligand. Upregulation
of AKR1C1 occurs in response to inflammatory stimuli, especially the
pro-labor cytokine interleukin-1β (IL-1β). The goal of this study was to
determine the mechanism(s) by which IL-1β induces AKR1C1 expression
in human DSCs. Elucidating this mechanism may uncover therapeutic
targets to prevent preterm birth caused by inflammation-associated
parturition.
Methods: Studies were performed in an immortalized human DSC line
(hFM-DEC). Cells were decidualized in a cocktail of forskolin, estradiol
(E2), and medroxyprogesterone actetate (MPA) for six days. Cells were
then subjected to small molecule inhibitors of MAPK, NF-κB, or AP-1
and challenged with IL-1β for a minimum of six hours. Protein and total
RNA were then extracted and subjected to immunoblotting and qRTPCR,
respectively.
Results: Activation of the JNK and NF-κB signaling pathways repressed
AKR1C1 expression in the presence and absence of IL-1β (p<0.05). IL-1β
induced phosphorylation of the P38 MAPK, which then mediated IL-1β
induced AKR1C1 expression (p<0.05), via repression of JNK activity
and NF-κB p65 phosphorylation. The AP-1 subunit, c-Fos, increased
IL-1β-induced AKR1C1 expression (p<0.05). Inhibition of MEK had no
effect on AKR1C1 expression.
Conclusion: Taken together, our data suggest that JNK and NF-κB
signaling pathways repress AKR1C1 expression in human DSCs, and
this occurs under basal and IL-1β induced conditions. In contrast, IL-1β
induced P38 prevents repression by JNK and NF-κB, thereby increasing
AKR1C1 expression. The existence of a constant brake highlights the
importance of regulating pro-labor genes such as AKR1C1 as their
expression potentially leads to loss of P4 (in this case via metabolism)
and prevention of PR activation. Overall, this represents a novel form
of localized P4 withdrawal to induce labor in response to inflammatory
stimuli, provided the stimulus activates P38. Determining the mechanisms
by which the brake on AKR1C1 is released may lead to novel therapeutic
targets for reducing the risk for inflammation-associated preterm birth.
T-004
Spermine and Spermidine Attenuate Glutathione Oxidation by
Gardnerella vaginalis: Antioxidant Potential of Vaginal Polyamines.
Gregory W Kirschen†, Briana Ferguson, Lauren Anton, Kristin D Gerson∗.
University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia,
PA, United States.
Introduction: Gardnerella vaginalis (GV) is a vaginal anaerobe
implicated in cervical epithelial barrier disruption. Despite knowledge
of immune processes at this host-microbial interface, contributions of
oxidative stress remain under investigated. We previously identified a role
for vaginal polyamines in mitigating GV-induced inflammation. Given
the antioxidant capacity of polyamines in other systems, we posited that
these metabolites may serve a similar role in the cervical epithelium. We
aimed to 1) determine effects of GV on the metabolism of glutathione,
a master antioxidant, and 2) determine how polyamines modify these
molecular events.
Methods: Ectocervical (ecto) and endocervical (endo) epithelial cells
were treated with 107 CFUs of GV for 24h. We conducted metabolomics
on cell culture media and RNA-sequencing on cells collected in trizol
(n=3/condition). Metabolomic data were log2 transformed and analyzed by
two-way ANOVA with calculation of false discovery rates. Transcriptomic
data were analyzed using DESeq2 to study glutathione metabolism genes
of interest. For glutathione assays, cells were treated with 104-107 CFUs of
GV for 24h +/- spermine (400uM), spermidine (400umM), or putrescine
(4mM). We measured ratios of reduced (GSH) to oxidized glutathione
(GSSG) by luminescence. Differences were compared by one-way
ANOVA with correction for multiple comparisons.
Results: Metabolomics revealed an increase in glutathione metabolites,
including cysteine glutathione-disulfide and cysteinylglycine, in both
cell lines after GV treatment (q<0.01). Among the 49 glutathione
metabolism genes analyzed, 14 were downregulated in ecto cells and
10 were downregulated in endo cells after GV treatment (p<0.05),
including genes involved in glutathione biosynthesis and maintenance
of its antioxidant potential. Three genes were upregulated in ecto cells
and 10 were upregulated in endo cells after GV (p<0.05), including genes
involved in membrane lipid peroxidation, and DNA damage repair, and
polyamine biosynthesis. GV reduced GSH:GSSG ratios in both cell lines
in a dose-dependent manner, which was partially mitigated by spermine
and spermine (p<0.05) while putrescine had no effect.
Conclusion: GV, a vaginal anaerobe implicated in adverse reproductive
outcomes, triggers oxidative stress in the cervical epithelium, driving
transcriptional changes in key components of host antioxidant enzymatic
machinery. Collectively, alterations suggest that GV depletes intracellular
reduced glutathione stores, while inducing molecular defense mechanisms
that likely serve to mitigate ongoing cellular damage. Modification of
this redox milieu with vaginal polyamine supplementation in the setting
of GV colonization may be leveraged as a novel strategy in the future to
improve reproductive health outcomes. R01HD114611 (KG)
T-005
Development of a High-Throughput Screening Assay to Identify
Inhibitors of Infection-Induced Inflammation of the Fetal Membranes.
Shajila Siricilla, Rohita Kotyada, Alexus J. Brown, Madeline C. Jones,
Devansh Nigam, Jennifer L. Herington∗. Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, TN, United States.
Introduction: Intrauterine infection and/or inflammation is present in 40-
60% of preterm birth (PTB) cases and is a major trigger of preterm labor.
Multiple microorganisms are implicated in intrauterine inflammation
leading to preterm labor (II-PTL) by provoking IL1b, IL6, TNFa and
others in the fetal membranes (FM). This study aimed to develop a highthroughput
screening (HTS) assay using human FM explants stimulated
with pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) of bacteria
associated with II-PTL.
Methods: FMs were obtained from women of reproductive age (18-
40) with normal uncomplicated pregnancies, receiving scheduled or
repeat cesarean deliveries at term gestation. FMs were washed and fullthickness
punch biopsies were obtained using a custom-made stamp of
96-4mm punch biopsies, and then transferred to each well of a 96-well
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 105A
plate. After overnight acclimation, the explants were treated with either
DMSO (vehicle) or PAMPs (lipopolysaccharide: LPS, peptidoglycan:
PG, and fibroblast-stimulating lipopeptide: FSL-1) that represent the
polymicrobial nature of II-PTL. Released proinflammatory cytokines
(IL1b, IL6 and TNFa) were quantified from supernatants using Luminex
& Lumit technologies. The viability of FMs was assessed using MTS
assay and optimized for signal intensity (time-course: 0, 2, 4, 8 and 24h,
concentration-response: 2.9fg/mL to 10ug/mL:11-point, 9-fold CRC),
robustness (z’-factor), reproducibility (3 patients, 3 different days),
and analyzed for sex as a biological variable. The assay was validated
through a small-scale screen of 19 molecules with established targets in
the inflammatory pathway.
Results: Quantified levels of released IL1b, IL6 and TNFa were
significantly elevated after exposure to PAMPs compared to vehicle
controls. Cytokine release peaked at 24h, with PG releasing the highest
IL1b levels, followed by LPS and FSL1. IL6 release was similar across
all PAMPs, while TNFa levels were highest after LPS and PG exposure.
The comparative CRC analysis revealed that FMs from male offspring,
compared to female offspring, had a greater response to PAMP-induced
cytokine levels. PAMP treatment did not affect the FM explant viability
for the duration of the assay. The statistical z’ factor = 0.5 indicates
assay robustness to distinguish inhibitors from vehicle controls, and
reproducibility among experimental days and different FMs. We identified
inhibitors for each PAMP-induced cytokine release, validating the HTS
assay for screening large molecular libraries for drug discovery.
Conclusion: These studies demonstrate that we have a robust and
reproducible assay to measure changes in proinflammatory cytokine
release from human FMs in 96-well format. Future studies will focus on
large-scale HTS of small-molecule libraries to identify novel inhibitors
of II-PTL.
T-006
Opsonisation of Vaginal Microbiota in Women at High-Risk of
Delivering Preterm. Belen Gimeno-Molina†,1,2 Alexiane Decout,3
Sherrianne Ng,2 Yun S Lee,2 Denise Chan,2 Ryan L Love†,2 Anna L David,4
Vasso Terzidou,2 David A MacIntyre,2,5 Phillip R Bennett,2 Maria Carmen
Collado,6 Lynne Sykes∗.1,2 1The Parasol Foundation Centre for Women’s
Health and Cancer Research, London, United Kingdom; 2March of Dimes
Prematurity Research Centre at Imperial College London, London, United
Kingdom; 3Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry,
United Kingdom; 4Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Institute for Women’s
Health, University College London, London, United Kingdom; 5Robinson
Research Institute, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia; 6Institute
of Agrochemistry and Food Technology-National Research Council (IATACSIC),
Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: The vaginal microbiome can modulate the risk of
spontaneous preterm birth (sPTB). Lactobacillus crispatus (Community
State Type, CST I) dominance is protective, while Lactobacillus spp.
depletion (CST IV) confers a higher risk. We previously showed increased
IgG concentrations in cervicovaginal fluid (CVF) of women with CST IV
compared to CST I. However, the role of the adaptive immune response
is unclear. Moreover, Surface-layer proteins (SLPs), cell-wall structures
predominant in Lactobacillus spp. associated with anti-inflammatory
properties, may be implicated in bacterial recognition. This study aims
to determine the role and target of immunoglobulin-opsonisation of
vaginal microbiota.
Methods: CVF samples were analysed from women at risk of sPTB
(N=101; 48sPTB, 53term). Vaginal microbiota composition was
assessed using metataxonomic profiling of bacterial 16S rRNA; and
immune mediators and immunoglobulins were measured with Luminex
immunoassays. The percentage of opsonisation was determined by flow
cytometry with anti-human IgA, IgG, and IgG subtypes (IgG1-4).
Results: Lactobacillus-dominated communities had higher percentages
of IgG and IgA opsonisation, especially CST I compared to CST IV (IgG;
median 72 vs 59%, p=0.04; IgA; 74 vs 58%, p=0.07). In contrast, lower
free IgG2/3 concentrations were detected in women with CST I compared
to CST IV (p<0.05). The percentage of opsonisation by IgA (p=0.02), IgG
(p=0.001) and IgG2 (p=0.048) was higher in women who delivered at
term compared to sPTB. There was a positive correlation between IgG and
IgG2 opsonisation (Spearman r=0.3, p=0.02), but not between IgG and
IgG1,3 or 4, suggesting IgG2 was the main bound subtype. IgG and IgG2
bound to SLPs (p<0.0001), but minimum/no binding was detected with
IgA or IgG1,3,4. Furthermore, anti-SLP IgG2 was positively correlated
with IgG opsonisation (Spearman=0.42, p<0.0001). Finally, IgA, IgG and
IgG2 opsonisation negatively correlated with IL-1β (r=-0.25, p=0.02) and
C3b (r=-0.32, p=0.003).
Conclusion: IgA and IgG opsonisation (with IgG2 mediating binding to
SLPs on L. crispatus) contribute to immune homeostasis, and associates
with reduced cervicovaginal inflammation and term birth. This supports
the development of immunotherapy for PTB prevention.
T-007
Mid-Gestational Vaginal Swabs Show Distinct Inflammatory Cytokine
Expression Profiles in Women Who Deliver Preterm Compared to
Term-Delivered Women. Cara M Mahon†∗, Dilly Anumba. University
of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Preterm birth affects nearly 15 million births yearly and
is the leading cause of death in under-five children worldwide. A healthy
pregnancy requires highly coordinated immune regulation. Pathological
inflammation from microbial or sterile triggers is linked to spontaneous
preterm labour, with many studies suggesting altered expression of
several inflammatory cytokines. Previous studies, mainly in high-income
countries, have demonstrated differences in pro-inflammatory cytokine
expression in reproductive tract tissues at varied gestations between
term- and preterm-delivering women.We sought to compare the cytokine
concentrations in vaginal swab samples taken at midgestation from women
in Bangladesh, a limited resource context with high preterm birth rates,
who subsequently delivered at term and preterm.
Methods: Cervicovaginal fluid samples were collected from 47 pregnant
patients in Bangladesh. Of these patients, 9 delivered preterm and 38 term.
13 inflammatory cytokine concentrations were measured simultaneously
in each sample using the automated ELISA system ELLA and normalised
against total protein concentration. At each gestational time point (22-
24 and 26-28 weeks), the Spearman R test was employed to correlate
cytokine expression levels amongst patients. Mann-Whitney U test was
used to compare individual cytokines between term and preterm groups.
Results: In all 47 patients, 7 inflammatory cytokines (IL8, IL1β, CCL2,
CXCL10, CXCL9, MMP9, TIMP1) were detectable at midgestation whilst
IL6, IL4, IL10, GM-CSF and RANTES were undetectable across all
samples.At both study time points, there was a strong positive correlation
of concentrations of CXCL10, CXCL9, IL8 and CCL2 in term-delivered
patients (rs: 0.63-0.88, p <0.002), whilst IL1β was only correlated with
MMP9 (rs: 0.88, p &l;t0.0001), and IL8 (rs:0.67, p=0.001). In contrast,
preterm cytokine expression levels were not significantly correlated at
both study time points; samples collected at 22-24 weeks gestation showed
a non-significant trend towards positive correlation, but in 26-28 weeks
no correlation was found (rs: -0.2 - -0.6, p=0.22 - 0.78). No individual
cytokine was identified to have distinctly different expressions between
term and preterm-delivered groups.
Conclusion: These correlation data identify novel cytokine panels for
investigation of future biomarker utility. They also indicate that tightly
controlled inflammatory pathways in mid-gestation of patients destined
to deliver at term may be perturbed in preterm pregnancies, worsening
as gestational age increases towards labour. Further studies are required
to elucidate the functional mechanisms of gestational intrauterine
inflammation.
106A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
T-008
Characterisation of Peripheral and Cervical Neutrophils Effector
Functions. Belen Gimeno-Molina†,1,2,3 Djenne Oseitwum-Parris†,2
Ryan L Love†,2,3 Milissa Coker,3 Yun S Lee,2,3 David A MacIntyre,3,4
Phillip R Bennett,2,3 Pascale Kropf,5 Lynne Sykes∗.1,2,3 1The Parasol
Foundation Centre for Women’s Health and Cancer Research, London,
United Kingdom; 2Institute of Reproductive and Developmental Biology,
Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom; 3March of Dimes
Prematurity Research Centre at Imperial College London, London, United
Kingdom; 4Robinson Research Institute, University of Adelaide, Adelaide,
Australia; 5Department of Infectious Diseases, Imperial College London,
London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: The vaginal microbiome can modulate the risk of preterm
birth (PTB). Our group has previously demonstrated that adverse vaginal
microbial compositions associate with increased IL-8 and C3b in
cervicovaginal fluid (CVF). It is hypothesised that leads to the recruitment
and activation of neutrophils in the cervicovaginal niche. Aligned with
this, we have shown that cervical neutrophils have increased expression
of CD63 and CD66b (markers implicated in degranulation/phagocytosis)
compared to peripheral blood neutrophils, as well as higher expression
in women with diverse vaginal microbiota composition compared to
women with L. crispatus dominance. In this pilot study we aim to compare
peripheral and cervical neutrophil effector functions between non-pregnant
and pregnant women.
Methods: Pregnant (n=13) and non-pregnant (n=5) women provided
peripheral blood, cytobrush and CVF samples. The ability of neutrophils
to perform phagocytosis was assessed using fluorescent bioparticle and
their capacity to produce reactive oxygen species (ROS) was assessed
by flow cytometry. Immune mediators (C3, C3a, C3b, IL-1β, IL-8, IL-
18, IL-6, MMP-8,9) were measured in plasma and CVF using Luminex
immunoassays.
Results: During pregnancy, the capacity for phagocytosis was higher in
both peripheral (76 vs 43%, p=0.03) and cervical neutrophils (54 vs 37%,
p=0.49) compared to non-pregnant samples. However, the phagocytic
capacity was reduced in cervical neutrophils compared to peripheral
blood both in pregnant (47 vs 72%, p=0.03) and non-pregnant samples
(51% vs 76%, p=0.09). There was no difference in ROS production by
pregnancy status or sample type. In-non pregnant samples, the median
C3a concentration was higher in CVF compared to plasma (p<0.05). In
pregnancy, the concentration of IL-1β, IL-8, C3a (all p<0.0001), MMP-
8 (p=0.005) and MMP-9 (p=0.0003) was higher in CVF than plasma
samples.
Conclusion: Reduced phagocytic capacity of neutrophils in the cervical
niche compared to the periphery may indicate an “exhausted” phenotype
due to previous encounter with bacterial stimuli. The detection of
degranulation products reveals neutrophils’ ability to fight infection in the
cervicovaginal milieu. In conclusion, neutrophils are actively playing a
role at the cervicovaginal interface, contributing to the proinflammatory
milieu and potentially participating in the cascade of events that lead to
labour.
T-009
Prior Abdominoplasty is Associated with Higher Triage Visits
for Preterm Contractions but Not Preterm Birth. Satjeet K Deol
Chauhan†, Lucia Di Francesco†, Devin Repuyan†, Swati Kumari†, Alireza
Mehdizadeh∗, George Mussalli∗. BronxCare Health System/Icahn School
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Bronx, NY, United States.
Introduction: Abdominoplasty is a cosmetic surgery performed to remove
excess fat and skin along with restoration of weakened abdominal muscles.
Previous studies have shown mixed results regarding the association
of prior abdominoplasty and preterm birth. This study aims to add to
the current literature evaluating prior abdominoplasty and the risk of
preterm delivery.
Methods: This 18 month (January 2023 to June 2024) retrospective
cohort study identified pregnant patients with history of abdominoplasty
and compared them with matched controls without prior abdominoplasty.
Key parameters including the number of triage visits for preterm labor,
gestational age at birth, quantitative blood loss at delivery and neonatal
outcomes were analyzed against a control group adjusting for the potential
confounders like age, parity, BMI and ethnic background.
Results: During the study interval, 50 pregnant women were identified to
have prior abdominoplasty mostly including hispanic underserved urban
community. In the abdominoplasty group 54% of patients had at least
one triage visit with preterm contraction as compared to 10% of patients
in control group (p< 0.05). The mean gestational age at delivery was
38.5 weeks in the Abdominoplasty group vs 38.7 in the Control Group
(p: 0.61) and there was no association between prior abdominoplasty
and preterm birth even though patients with abdominoplasty had false
perception of preterm contractions and increasing number of triage visits
to rule out preterm labor. The mean age, parity, BMI, and birthweight were
comparable in both groups, however the average quantitative blood loss
was 851.2ml in abdominoplasty group vs 655.9ml in the control group
which was statistically significant.(p< 0.05)
Conclusion: Pregnancy with prior abdominoplasty has been hypothesized
to impede the normal physiological expansion of the abdominal wall,
potentially leading to increased intra-abdominal pressure which could
impact fetal growth. Our results are consistent with prior studies that did
not show any fetal growth abnormalities. Our results indicated higher
frequency of triage visits for preterm contractions, but there was no
corresponding increase in the risk of preterm labor. The average gestational
age at delivery was 38.5 weeks in abdominoplasty group which was similar
to the national average. Given the mixed data from previous studies further
studies are required to determine if patients with prior abdominoplasty
are at a higher risk of preterm labor.
T-010
Chromatin Accessibility in the Myometrium Across the Estrous
Cycle and Postpartum Period. Saloni A Modi†,1 Nawrah Khader†,1
Anna Dorogin,2 Oksana Shynlova∗,2 Mitchell A Jennifer∗.1 1University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 2Sinai Health System, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Introduction: The estrous cycle in female mice, like the menstrual cycle
in women, involves hormonal changes that last 3-4 days, and dynamic
gene expression preparing the body for ovulation, mating, and potential
pregnancy. Previous research has identified genes upregulated in the
non-pregnant and pregnant uterine muscle (myometrium), however,
less attention has been given to epigenetic changes during the estrous
cycle and in postpartum (PP). Changes in chromatin accessibility
detected by the Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin paired
with Sequencing (ATAC-seq) can identify gene regulatory regions and,
through “footprinting analysis”, transcription factors (TFs) active at
these regions. We hypothesized that PP myometrium exhibits distinct
molecular signature which may represent “epigenetic memory” of
previous pregnancy driven by distinct TFs.
Methods: Myometrial samples were collected from female CD-1
mice, including young 4-weeks old pre-cycling (PreCy) mice, adult
virgin 2-4-month-old nulliparous mice at proestrus (PEs), estrus (Es),
and diestrus (DiEs), as well as early postpartum (day 4/D4PP) and late
postpartum (4 weeks/4WPP) animals. Myometrial nuclei were isolated
and tagmented at accessible chromatin with transposase, the resulting
fragments were then sequenced across the genome. ATAC-seq identified
regions of chromatin accessibility dynamic through the estrous cycle, and
those specific to the early and late postpartum period. We used TOBIAS
software to identify enriched and depleted TFs motif footprints between
different hormonal states, offering insight into their molecular regulation.
Results: ATAC-seq clustering revealed noticeable differences between
cycling and early PP samples. D4PP samples clustered separately from
the rest, whereas 4WPP samples were similar to PreCy, Es, and DiEs
samples, suggesting that chromatin accessibility in late postpartum returns
to a nulliparous-like state. Footprinting analysis further highlighted
differences between D4PP, enriched for HOX, MEF, and CDX motifs,
and 4WPP enriched for AP-1 motifs (p<0.01). Comparing 4WPP to PreCy
myometrium revealed very few differentially enriched TFs, however,
PreCy was enriched for KLF15, EGR2, and ZBTB14 motifs, which were
absent in 4WPP, whereas SOX motifs (p<0.01) became more prominent
at 4WPP.
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 107A
Conclusion: In the early PP period distinct chromatin accessibility TF
signatures exist, mostly related to smooth muscle remodeling, which
are largely lost later. The enrichment of SOX and AP-1 TF motifs at
4WPP, which are characteristic of term labor, suggest that a subset of
labor-associated regions of chromatin remain accessible, potentially
preserving some epigenetic memory of pregnancy. This may promote
more efficient labor contractions in repeated pregnancies as compared
to the first pregnancy.
T-011
Investigating Cervical Tissue Dynamics during Mouse Pregnancy with
Multi-Modal Imaging. Kanchana Devanathan†,1 Joseph Afreh†,1 Naoko
Boatwright†,2 Alexus Jade Brown†,2 Jennifer Herington∗,2 Jeff Reese∗,1,2
Anita Mahadevan-Jansen∗.1 1Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, United
States; 2Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, United States.
Introduction: During pregnancy, the cervix undergoes extensive
remodeling in preparation for parturition. Limited approaches exist to
examine longitudinal changes in the structural and biochemical properties
of the cervix during pregnancy. In this study, multimodal imaging was used
to detect key biochemical changes, such as Extracellular Matrix (ECM)
organization, lipid and protein content, blood vessel density, and smooth
muscle content that will allow molecular and structural phenotyping of
the cervix as a prototype of physiological tissue remodeling.
Methods: The cervix was collected from non-pregnant and pregnant
(days 12, 15, 17, 19) CD-1 mice. Serial transverse sections (10μm)
were used for label-free imaging on a Multimodal Advanced Thermal
Imaging System (MANTIS) that is equipped with Second Harmonic
Generation and Stimulated Raman spectroscopy to study collagen and
lipid/protein biomarkers, respectively. Additionally, the MANTIS is
equipped with a Two-photon Excitation Fluorescent microscope to image
immunohistochemical stained (tropoelastin, CD31, and myosin heavy
chain 11) sections to study elastin, blood vessels, and smooth muscle,
respectively. Imaging regions of interest included near the endocervical
canal and within the stroma of sections at the internal and external os.
Images were quantified using ImageJ and statistical testing was performed
using Origin software.
Results: Inversion in collagen fiber orientation was observed on day
17 which could be due to the fiber dispersion and realignment towards
labor. The fibers become less coherent near the external os with
advancing gestational age. The collagen orientation near the internal os
is significantly different from the external os (p << 0.05). On day 19, the
collagen orientation index is significantly higher (p << 0.05) near the
endocervical canal of the external os region which could be due to cervical
ripening. The Lipid-to-Protein (L/P) ratio increased during different days
of pregnancy. On day 19, the L/P ratio was significantly higher (p <<
0.05) near the external os region. The blood vessel density increases with
progress in gestational age, and higher vessel density is observed in the
external os when compared to the internal os. In the external os region,
elastin distribution is higher, and the area of smooth muscle is found to
increase with gestational age.
Conclusion: Multimodal imaging revealed significant variations in
collagen orientation, lipid and protein content, number of blood vessels,
elastin distribution, and area of smooth muscle during cervical remodeling
of pregnant mice. This study could be extended to investigate cervical
remodeling in mouse models of induced preterm birth.
T-012
Development of a Novel Tocolytic Delivery System for Preterm
Labor. Christopher Hansen†,1 Lauren Link†,1 Alexus Brown†,2 Jeremy
Staub,2 Shajila Siricilla,2 Todd Giorgio,1 Jennifer Herington∗.2 1Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, TN, United States; 2Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, TN, United States.
Introduction: Therapeutics used to manage preterm labor are limited to
off-label tocolytic use. The true efficacy of current tocolytics is unknown
due to their adverse maternal and fetal effects which preclude their use
beyond 24-72 hours. Uterine-targeted delivery of efficacious inhibitors
of smooth muscle contractility provides an approach to overcome offtarget
effects associated with current tocolytics. The goal of our work
was to develop uterine-targeted drug delivery system (DDS) for current
tocolytics to provide sustained inhibition of contractility for a prolonged
period with reduced side-effects.
Methods: Poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid (PLGA) nanoparticles (NPs)
were formulated with and without tocolytic agents (nifedipine and
indomethacin) and DiD fluorescent dye using a single oil-in-water
emulsion method. PLGA-PEG-maleimide included in the NP formulation
enabled the conjugation of an oxytocin receptor (OXTR) antibody to the
surface of NPs to yield uterine-targeted NPs. Dynamic light scattering
determined the size, polydispersity index (PDI; size distribution),
and surface charge, while scanning electron microscopy assessed the
morphology of NPs. UV-visible light spectrophotometry analysis of lysed
NPs yielded the amount of drug inside the NPs relative to the amount
loaded (i.e. encapsulation efficiency, %EE). HPLC analysis of in vitro
hydrolyzed NPs determined the amount of drug released over 30 days.
An ex vivo isometric contractility assay compared the tocolytic efficacy
of NPs formulated with nifedipine to freely solubilized nifedipine. The in
vivo distribution of NPs was assessed from excised organs from pregnant
mice administered NPs conjugated with or without OXTR-antibody
(targeted and untargeted).
Results: The NPs possessed minimal polydispersity (PDI=0.2) with a
mean diameter of 1.2 μm and a surface charge of -7.5 mV. With serial
centrifugation, particles separated into six size ranges (~250, 300, 420,
530, 700 and 1000nm). Approximately 75% and 98% of indomethacin and
nifedipine, respectively, was successfully loaded into NPs. Nifedipine was
released from NPs for up to 12 days, while indomethacin was not fully
released until day 30. NPs formulated with nifedipine exert a significant
tocolytic effect (similar to freely-soluble nifedipine) in an ex vivo organ
bath uterine contractility assay, while NPs formulated without drugs had
no effect. OXTR-targeted NPs increased in vivo delivery to the uterus by
10-fold. Collectively, these data show that PLGA is a promising carrier
for uterine-targeted tocolytic drug delivery.
Conclusion: Collectively, these data suggest that we have developed
uterine-targeted DDS that allows greater tocolytic concentrations at the
uterus for a prolonged period without impacting the tocolytic efficacy.
T-013
Inhibiting the Sphingolipid-1-Phosphate Receptor 1 Delays
Lipopolysaccharide-Induced Preterm Labor in Mice. Magdaleena N
Mbadhi†, Ruth Gill, Nicole Dallas, Antonina I Frolova∗. Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a bioactive lipid mediator,
signals via one of its unique receptors, S1P receptors 1-5 (S1PR1-5), to
induce downstream signaling. Our previous work found that S1P induces
a proinflammatory phenotype in the pregnant human myometrial cells.
We hypothesized that inhibiting the S1PRs could impair S1P signaling
during labor and prevent preterm birth.
Methods: To model infection-induced preterm labor, C57BL/6 pregnant
female mice were administered 15 ug/mouse lipopolysaccharide (LPS
from E. coli strain O127:B8) intravaginally on gestational day 16.5
(P16.5). Groups were pre-treated with an S1PR1 antagonist (1.5mg/kg
EX26), S1PR2 antagonist (3mg/kg JTE013), or vehicle control (10%
DMSO) intraperitoneally (i.p) 1 hour before LPS administration. The
time of delivery was defined as the birth of the first pup. In separate
groups of mice, uterine tissue was collected during non-pregnant (NP),
early gestation (P9.5), mid-gestation (P15.5), term non-labor (P18.5,
TNL), term labor (TL), and on P16.5 at 4 hours post-LPS or vehicle
administration. Quantitative PCR and western blot analysis were used to
quantify the expression of S1P receptors and sphingosine kinase (SPHK),
the rate-limiting enzyme in S1P synthesis.
Results: S1PR1 mRNA and protein expression in the uterus increased
with advancing gestation, peaking at TNL (3-fold increase compared
to NP, p=0.0005) and TL (3-fold increase compared to NP, p=0.02),
respectively. SPHK1 mRNA and protein expression also increased with
advancing gestation, peaking at P15.5 (3.4-fold increase for mRNA and
20-fold increase for protein, p<0.05 for both). Following LPS treatment,
S1PR1 expression also increased (1.4-fold compared to vehicle, p=0.04).
There was no change in uterine S1PR2 expression throughout gestation
108A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
or with LPS. In our mouse model of infection-stimulated preterm
labor, administration of S1PR1 antagonist, but not S1PR2 antagonist,
significantly prolonged the gestational duration compared to LPS
administration alone (median 25.8 h vs 17.5 h; p=0.0002).
Conclusion: Inhibition of S1PR1 delays LPS-induced preterm birth in
mice. The S1P signaling pathway is a potential therapeutic target for
preventing preterm birth.
T-014
Transcription Factor Regulatory Networks in the Human Myometrium
are Temporally Dynamic in Response to Lipopolysaccharide. Zoe E
Gillespie†, Jennifer A Mitchell∗. University of Toronto, Toronto, ON,
Canada.
Introduction: Preterm labour (PTL) is a global health issue and the
leading cause of death in infants under 5; however, strategies to prevent
PTL are limited. At labour onset, the myometrium transitions from a
non-contractile (quiescent) to contractile state. Since multi-transcription
factor (TF) complexes play a role in regulating such transitions in other
contexts, this is likely similar in the myometrium. By elucidating TF
interactions and their temporal dynamics in this context, novel targets
could be identified for prevention of PTL.
Methods: We exposed immortalized human myometrial cells to
lipopolysaccharide (LPS; a known model of infection-based PTL) for
30 min, 2 h, and 24 h. Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin
paired with Sequencing (ATAC-seq) was conducted and differentially
accessible regions of chromatin identified (software: DiffBind, FDR <
0.05, fold change > 1.5). These chromatin regions were then examined
for transcription factor binding sites (TFBS; software: TOBIAS, p-value
< 0.05). Changes in the number of accessible TFBS for each TF over
time were examined to propose a dynamic model of myometrial gene
expression regulation in response to LPS.
Results: Changes in chromatin accessibility were minimal at 30 min
and 2 h compared to untreated cells. Strikingly at 24 h, 73% (949/1293)
of the differential regions decreased accessibility compared to 2 h,
mirroring our observations in the pregnant mouse myometrium after LPS
treatment. Despite minimal differences in global chromatin accessibility,
at base pair resolution TFBS footprints were significantly altered as LPS
exposure progressed. The number of FOS::JUNB TFBS was greatest at
30 min before declining, while the number of NFKB/RelB TFBS steadily
increased over 24 h. Several TFBS (e.g. NR4A2 and HNF1B) exhibited
a pattern of consistent decrease over 24 h, linking chromatin compaction
with TF that maintain myometrial quiescence.
Conclusion: In recent years elucidation of specific TFs involved in
labour and PTL has occurred; however, there is limited research into
the temporal dynamics of these factors. We have identified (1) temporal
patterns in chromatin accessibility and TFBS dynamics in response to LPS
in human myometrial cells and (2) a novel role for TFs binding regions of
the myometrial genome to maintain quiescence. These data expand our
fundamental understanding of how infection associated-PTL is regulated
and provides novel targets for PTL prevention.
T-015
Substrate Preference in Myometrial Smooth Muscle Cells Following
Oxytocin Exposure. Kevin K Prifti†, Ruth M Gill, Kaci T Martin†,
Antonina I Frolova∗. Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
MO, United States.
Introduction: The uterus requires energy for sustained contractility
during labor, to deliver the fetus and diminish the risk of labor dystocia
and postpartum hemorrhage. The substrate preference during energy
production of the uterine smooth muscle, myometrium, required for labor
is poorly understood. Our objective was to determine the difference in
substrate preference in quiescent and contracting myometrial cells in vitro.
Methods: Immortalized human myometrial cell line (hTERT-HM) or
primary human myometrial cells (1o hMSMCs) isolated from scheduled
(non-labored) term cesarean delivery biopsies were cultured on Seahorse
96-well plates at a density of 30,000 cells per well. To stimulate myometrial
contractility, cells were treated with 10-8M uterotonic oxytocin (OXT) for
1 h. The oxygen consumption rate (OCR) and extracellular acidification
rate (ECAR) were measured using XFe96 Seahorse analyzer (Agilent).
Baseline measurements of OCR and ECAR were recorded followed by
injection of 4.0 μM Etomoxir (long chain fatty acid oxidation inhibitor),
2.0 μM UK5099 (glucose oxidation inhibitor), or vehicle. This was
followed by sequential injection of: oligomycin (ATP synthase inhibitor),
FCCP (uncoupling agent), and rotenone/antimycin A (complex I/III
inhibitors) to interrupt mitochondrial respiration. OCR/ECAR ratios were
calculated to determine relative contributions of oxidative phosphorylation
and glycolysis to energy production. Significance was determined by oneway
ANOVA with Holm-Sidak multiple comparison test.
Results: Basal OCR significantly decreased in the presence of UK5099,
but not etomoxir, in control and OXT-treated hTERT-HM (p<0.05) and
1o hMSMCs (p<0.01). Maximum respiratory capacity was not affected
by UK5099 or etomoxir in control or OXT-treated cells. OXT treatment
significantly increased spare respiratory capacity in hTERT-HM (p<0.05).
This increase was ablated by addition of UK5099, but not etomoxir. 1o
hMSMCs exhibited a similar trend while not reaching significance. OXT
treatment significantly decreased maximal OCR/ECAR ratios regardless
of oxidation inhibitors in both hTERT-HM (p<0.01) and 1o hMSMCs
(p<0.05).
Conclusion: The decreased basal OCR upon UK5099 treatment , but
not etomoxir, suggests a preference for glucose oxidation under basal
conditions. Lack of response to either inhibitor under conditions of
maximal respiration suggests that myometrial cells can shift substrate
use between glucose and fatty acid oxidation under conditions of high
metabolic demand. The reduced spare capacity with ablation of glucose
oxidation via UK5099 in the OXT treated group, suggests a preference
for glucose oxidation in contracting myometrial cells. Finally, the change
in OCR/ECAR ratios following OXT suggests that both cell types shift
their energy production towards glycolysis when stimulated with OXT,
independent of oxidation pathway inhibition.
T-016
Cervical Remodeling in the Rhesus Macaque: A Systematic Proteomic
Analysis. Echo Xu†,1 Hongyu Li∗,2 Shuyang Fang∗,3 Lipi Das∗,1 Alexander
W Rookyard∗,1 Davey Liu∗,1 Anu Jain∗,1 David S Johnson∗,1 Lewis M
Brown∗,1 Helen Feltovich∗,4 Timothy Hall∗,5 Kristin Myers∗,1 Joy Vink∗.6
1Columbia University, New York, NY, United States; 2Columbia University
Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, United States; 3Exponent, Menlo
Park, CA, United States; 4North Memorial Health, Minneapolis, MN,
United States; 5University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, United
States; 6John A. Burns School of Medicine, University of Hawaiʻi,
Honolulu, HI, United States.
Introduction: Normal cervical remodeling (CR) during pregnancy is
essential for supporting fetal development and ensuring timely parturition.
Abnormal CR, premature or delayed, can lead to preterm or postterm
pregnancies, increasing perinatal morbidity and mortality. Through a
systematic proteomic analysis, we characterized the protein composition
of the rhesus macaque cervix, identified how these proteomic profiles
evolve across gestation, and compared these changes with those previously
reported in the human cervix.
Methods: Cervical tissue was collected from the internal os (IO) and
external os (EO) from nonpregnant (NP; n=3), early 2nd trimester (E2;
n=3), early 3rd trimester (E3; n=3), and late 3rd trimester (L3; n=7) rhesus
macaques. After protein extraction and digestion, analysis was conducted
with mass spectrometry and UniProt database searching. Comparisons
between time points were made using Welch’s ANOVA and Games-
Howell post-hoc test. PANTHER, DAVID, and REACTOME were used
for pathway analysis.
Results: Including all time points, 4,606 cellular and soluble extracellular
(ECM) proteins were identified. Proteomic heterogeneity was noted
between the IO and EO across pregnancy. Of core matrisome proteins
predicted, we detected 17 of 44 collagens, 60 of 195 glycoproteins, 12 of
35 proteoglycans, 69 of 238 ECM regulators, 24 of 171 ECM-affiliated
proteins, and 21 of 344 secreted factors. Significant similarities were noted
in the human and macaque matrisome profiles. Differential expression
of these proteins between gestational intervals indicates significant CR
throughout pregnancy, with the greatest rate of change occurring between
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 109A
NP and E2. Consistent with our findings in humans, COL12A1, COL15A1,
and fibronectin were differentially expressed across gestational ages,
particularly in the IO, highlighting their potential roles in CR through
elastic fiber formation, extracellular matrix degradation, and smooth
muscle contraction.
Conclusion: Our analysis revealed key proteomic changes in the macaque
cervix through gestation and identified their possible contribution in the
mechanisms underlying both normal and abnormal CR in pregnancy.
These findings also establish the rhesus macaque as a robust model for
studying the process of human CR and its impact on pregnancy outcomes.
T-017
Cervical Length and Delivery Urgency in Patients with Placenta
Accreta Spectrum. Joseph R Mims Jr., MD†, Amanda A Allshouse,
MS∗, Lillian H Goodman, MD, MPH†, Rosa J Speranza, MD†, Michelle
Debbink, MD, PhD∗, Robert Silver, MD∗, Susan Dalton, MD∗, Brett D
Einerson, MD, MPH∗. University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, United
States.
Introduction: Increasingly, cervical length (CL) is being used to
determine delivery timing in patients with placenta accreta spectrum
(PAS). We aimed to assess whether short CL is associated with emergent or
expedited delivery in patients with PAS at a center that uses near-universal
transvaginal CL measurement with each ultrasound.
Methods: Cohort study of all viable singleton cases of PAS with a
recorded transvaginal CL at a single center from 2001-2023. The exposure
was short cervix, CL <2.5cm, at 18-27 weeks (2T) and 28-34 weeks
(3T). The primary outcome was emergent (maternal/fetal instability) or
expedited delivery (moved up due to change in clinical circumstances)
<34 weeks. Secondary outcome was emergent or expedited delivery at
any gestational age. At this center, delivery is routinely planned at 34 to 35
weeks. We present rate of the primary and secondary outcome overall and
by short cervix category; with odds ratios (OR), [95% confidence interval]
reported for unadjusted comparisons and p-value from chi-square.
Results: Of 226 PAS cases, 141 were included for analysis. Cases were
excluded if multiple gestation (n=3), delivery <20 weeks (n=4), or no
CL measurement at 18-34 weeks (n=78). Short CL was present in 13%
(13/99) in 2T and 12% (14/117) in 3T. Short CL groups did not differ
statistically from those with normal cervical length in any measured
variables. Emergent or expedited delivery <34 weeks occurred in 23%
(16-30%) of deliveries. The secondary outcome occurred in 35% (27-43%)
of deliveries. 2T short CL was not associated with the primary outcome
(39% vs 22%, p=0.199; OR 2.20, [0.65 - 7.53]), nor was 3T short CL (7%
vs 22%, p=0.19; OR 0.27 [0.03 - 2.16]), or short CL at any GA (OR 1.08,
[0.36 - 3.21]). Neither 2T or 3T short CL was associated with emergent
or expedited delivery at any gestational age (2T OR 1.06, [0.32 - 3.50],
3T OR 0.58 [0.15 - 2.21]).
Conclusion: In this exploratory analysis, short CL <2.5cm was not
associated with emergent or expedited delivery, although a clinically
meaningful effect cannot be ruled out given wide confidence intervals.
These data from a PAS program with routine CL measurement with each
ultrasound do not support the use of CL to determine delivery timing in
those with PAS.
T-018
Ex-Vivo 3D Imaging of Cervix Reveals Differential Vascular Patterns
during Cervical Remodeling in Mouse Models of Term and Preterm
Birth. Pratheepa Rasiah,1 Joseph Afreh†,1 Han Dong†,1 Kanchana
Devanathan†,1 Naoko Boatwright,2 Michael Jenkins,3 Jennifer Herrington,4
Jeff Reese,4 Anita Mahadevan-Jansen∗.1 1Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
TN, United States; 2Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashvilel, TN,
United States; 3Case Western Reserve University, Ohio, OH, United States;
4Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, United States.
Introduction: Vascular remodeling plays a crucial role in uncomplicated
pregnancies, and the absence of these changes can lead to pre-eclampsia,
fetal growth restriction, and stillbirth. Currently, the full extent of vascular
adaptations in normal full-term pregnant mice and induced pre-term birth
models remains unclear. The objective of this study was to leverage in vivo
vessel labeling and ex vivo optical imaging techniques to compare the
3D vasculature morphology between the term term and preterm-laboring
(PTL) mouse cervix
Methods: Non-gravid and gravid CD-1 mice (n=3 per group) underwent
trans-cardial perfusion with a DiI solution on: 1) gestation day (gd) 15,
2) gd19, 3) 8 hours post-LPS induced PTL, 4) 20hours post-mifipristone
induced PTL. The cervix was excised post-mortem and fixed in 4% PFA.
Tissue was cleared using lipid-preserving index matching for prolonged
imaging depth (LIMPID). High-throughput imaging was performed
using light-sheet fluorescent microscopy (Zeiss Z1). Image analysis,
including segmentation and measurement of vessel parameters such as
vessel number, length, branching, and tortuosity (abnormal twisting),
was done using NIS elements and IMARIS software. These parameters
were compared between the upper and lower regions of the cervix
(near the internal and external os, respectively) and groups of mice.
Results: In a normal pregnancy, the distribution of blood vessels with a
diameter <10μm shifted towards 11-20μm diameter on gd19 compared to
a non-gravid cervix. The non-gravid cervix exhibited an equal distribution
of blood vessel number within the upper and lower cervix, while the gd19
cervix showed increased vascularity in the lower cervix compared to the
upper cervix (p<0.001). The cervix from PTL mice showed differential
blood vessel morphology, with capillaries (sized 10-20μm) becoming
more tortuous compared to the gd15 cervix.
Conclusion: Analysis of the 3D cervix vasculature revealed altered
blood vessel morphology in the lower cervix during the time of cervical
remodeling of preterm and term laboring mice. Monitoring in vivo changes
in vascular reactivity could be used as a diagnostic marker of preterm labor.
T-019
Impact of Cervical Length Gained After Cerclage Placement on
Gestational Age at Delivery. Sarah H Abelman†,1 Frank I Jackson,1
Nathan A Keller,1 Julie Chen,2 Luis A Bracero,1 Jolene C Muscat,1 Matthew
J Blitz.1 1Northwell, New Hyde Park, NY, United States; 2Zucker School of
Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, Hempstead, NY, United States.
Introduction: This study aimed to determine whether the amount
of cervical length gained after cerclage placement is associated with
gestational age at delivery.
Methods: This was a retrospective cohort of all patients who received
either an exam-indicated or ultrasound-indicated cerclage from January
2018 to December 2023 within a large health system in New York. At our
institution, a follow-up ultrasound to evaluate cervical length is common
practice after cerclage placement. The primary exposure was cervical
length gained (cm), determined by transvaginal ultrasound, using the
difference in cervical length between pre-operative and post-operative
ultrasound examination. The primary outcome was gestational age at
delivery. Those receiving exam-indicated cerclages were presumed to have
a cervical length of 0 cm. A multivariate linear mixed regression model
was used, controlling for cervical length prior to cerclage placement,
cerclage indication, and gestational age at cerclage placement.
Results: A total of 388 patients were included for analysis: 161 (41%)
received an exam-indicated cerclage and 227 (59%) received an ultrasound
indicated cerclage. Mean gestational age at cerclage placement was 18.9
± 3.2 weeks. The mean cervical length prior to cerclage placement was
1.0 ± 1.4 cm, and the mean after cerclage placement was 2.6 ± 1.0 cm
with an average length gained of 1.6 cm. The mean gestational age at
birth was 36.0 ± 4.2 weeks. In the adjusted analysis, gestational age at
cerclage, cervical length prior to cerclage, and cervical length gained
were all significantly associated with increased gestational age at delivery.
Specifically, for every 1 cm of cervical length gained, gestational age at
delivery was 1.7 weeks greater (P<0.001).
Conclusion: The amount of cervical length gained with the placement
of an exam- or ultrasound-indicated cerclage does significantly impact
gestational age at delivery. Those with a greater difference between preand
post-operative cervical lengths delivered at later gestational ages.
110A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
T-020
Application of the Uterine Electromyography to Predict Preterm Labor
in Twin Pregnancies with Threatened Preterm Labor. Pin Li†, Bingqian
Zhou†, Zaiying Ma†, Xueya Qian∗, Yunshan Chen∗, Zheng Zheng∗, Huishu
Liu∗. Guangzhou Women and Children’s Medical Center Affiliated to
Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
Introduction: Measurement of uterine electromyography (EMG) has been
shown to identify single pregnancy at the risk of preterm labor (PTB).
However, the prognostic capability of uterine EMG for predicting PTB
in twin pregnancy has not been evaluated yet. The study was aimed to
evaluate the prediction performance of uterine electromyography (EMG)
for preterm birth in twin pregnancies with threatened preterm labor.
Methods: This is a single-center prospective cohort study of subjects with
twin pregnancies presenting to emergency obstetrics for the symptoms of
preterm labor between 24+0 weeks and 34+0 weeks of gestational age.
EMG was recorded in eligible participants and transvaginal cervical length
was also received screening for preterm birth at the time of emergency
obstetrics. The EMG bursts were characterized by an analysis of multiple
variables, including burst frequency, duration, total power, and maximum
frequency. Clinical characteristics were also collected. Based on the
delivery time, the study subjects were divided into a group delivering
within 7 days (n=32) and a group delivering 7 days or more after delivery
(n=51). These variables were then compared between two groups of
women. The predictive values of EMG and transvaginal cervical length
were evaluated using receiver-operating curves (ROC) analysis.
Results: Of eighty-three symptomatic pregnant women, PTB occurred in
77.11% and early PTB (<34 weeks) occurred in 56.63%. The uterine EMG
parameter of total power have statistically differ between women those
who delivered within seven days than those who delivered seven days
or more after delivery (P<0.001), and the other uterine EMG parameters
including burst frequency, duration, maximum frequency are no differ
between the two groups (P>0.05). The total power demonstrated good
predicetive ability with ROC 0.88. The integration of total power and CL
improved the predictive accuracy for preterm birth compared to individual
clinical methods ( (AUC 0.90, P<0.001).
Conclusion: Measurement of myometric electrical activity may identify
true PTB in twin pregnancies at risk of preterm labor.
T-022
OUCH Study: Optimizing Uterine Contractility and Hemodynamics at
Cesarean Delivery in Patients with Class III Obesity and Labor Arrest.
Joseph Park†,1 Oksana Shynlova∗,2 Stephen Lye∗,2 Mrinalini Balki∗.1
1Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada; 2Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum
Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Introduction: The global rise in cesarean delivery (CD) rate has
been accompanied by an increase in associated complications such as
postpartum hemorrhage (PPH), a leading cause of maternal mortality.
Women with class III obesity (BMI >40 kg/m2), demonstrate a
dysfunction of myometrial contractility. Similarly, patients with prolonged
augmentation of labor with oxytocin develop desensitization of oxytocin
receptors, leading to labor arrest. Both groups are at high-risk for PPH
due to uterine atony. CD under neuraxial anesthesia often results in
hypotension due to sympathetic blockade, requiring vasopressors such as
ephedrine, phenylephrine, and norepinephrine to maintain blood vessel
tone. Vasopressors may also interact with adrenergic receptors expressed
on the myometrium, potentially enhancing myometrial contractions.
This dual action could be beneficial in patients at higher risk of PPH, in
particular (1) patients with high BMI and (2) labor arrest. The main goal
of this study is to identify the optimal vasopressor and dosage for these
high-risk groups and to explore the biomolecular mechanisms underlying
their reduced contractility
Methods: Myometrial biopsy samples will be collected from pregnant
women undergoing CD (control, class III obesity, labor arrest). Tissue
strips will be exposed to increasing concentrations of study drugs
(ephedrine, phenylephrine, and norepinephrine) or vehicle control in
organ baths. Experiments will be performed with/without oxytocin and
carbetocin. Contraction parameters (amplitude, frequency, and area under
the curve) will be measured using force transducers, with the primary
outcome being the motility index (amplitude x frequency). Additionally,
myometrial biopsies will undergo protein expression analysis via mass
spectrometry and gene expression analysis via RNA-seq to compare
molecular signatures associated with myometrial dysfunction due to high
BMI or labor arrest.
Results: Preliminary experiments from control groups show that
ephedrine and phenylephrine significantly increase the motility index
compared to tissues not exposed to vasopressor (p <0.05). We expect
that tissue from high risk patients will have weaker baseline contractility
compared to control groups. We also hypothesize that omics studies
will demonstrate significant downregulation of myometrial contractility
pathways, and upregulation of inflammatory and hypoxia pathways.
Conclusion: In the context of rising CD rates, the OUCH study aims
to provide critical insights into the contractile mechanisms underlying
adverse maternal outcomes in high-risk patients. Ultimately, we aim to
enhance maternal safety by guiding clinicians on the choice of vasopressor
drug, optimum dosing, and its timing in CD for the prevention of PPH
and hypotension, particularly in high-risk women.
T-023
Rytvela Outperforms the Tocolytic Agent Nifedipine in Preventing
Preterm Birth and Adverse Neonatal Outcomes When Administered
After the Induction of Preterm Labor. Tiffany Habelrih†,1,2 Béatrice
Ferri†,2 Félix Mauffette-Whyte†,1,2 Thalyssa-Lyn Augustin†,2 Xin Hou∗,3
France Côté†,2 Christiane Quiniou∗,2 David M Olson∗,4 Sylvain Chemtob∗.2
1McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; 2Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada; 3CHU Sainte-Justine, Montreal, QC, Canada;
4University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB) is the leading cause of neonatal
morbidity and mortality and affects 13.5 million births every year.
Interleukin-1 is crucial to the onset of PTB as it induces the production
of inflammatory mediators leading to preterm labor (PTL). Uteroplacental
inflammation is detrimental to the fetus and leads to long term sequalae.
Neither PTB nor related neonatal morbidities have been prevented in
studies of tocolytic agents, such as nifedipine. Our group developed
an allosteric peptide (Rytvela) that antagonizes the IL-1R. Rytvela is
potent in preventing PTB by suppressing inflammation via the inhibition
of pathways activating AP-1 while preserving the NF-kB pathway. In
a treatment mode after the onset of PTL, the efficacy of rytvela and
nifedipine have been compared in inhibiting the PTL cascade, and
preventing PTB and adverse neonatal outcomes.
Methods: CD-1 mice were injected with LPS (10 μg i.p.) on gestational
day (G) 16 to induce PTL. Rytvela (2 mg/kg/day s.c.) was injected at
various times after induction of labor (0.5-6 hours) from G16 to G18 to
determine its maximal delay of administration. Rytvela (2 mg/kg/day) or
nifedipine (5 mg/kg/day) were injected (s.c.) 2h post-LPS from G16 to
G18. Gestational tissues were collected on G17 to quantify inflammatory
mediators. Prematurity rate, neonatal survival and weight were recorded.
Brains, lungs, eyes, and intestines were collected at PT7 to assess their
integrity. All groups were compared to the vehicle.
Results: Rytvela was effective in preventing PTB and adverse neonatal
outcomes even when administered 2h post-LPS (during surge in
inflammation). The expression of pro-inflammatory mediators in
gestational tissues was inhibited by rytvela but not by nifedipine.
Administration of rytvela significantly decreased the rates of PTB (40%,
p<0.05) and of fetal mortality (30%, p<0.05). Nifedipine had no effect
in preventing adverse gestational outcomes (p>0.05). Rytvela promoted
neonatal development as indicated by gains in body weight (6.06 g vs
5.53 g, p< 0.05) and length (4.78 cm vs 4.38 cm, p< 0.005) at PT7.
Furthermore, the integrity of all neonatal tissues was preserved by rytvela
but not nifedipine.
Conclusion: Administration of rytvela after the onset of PTL effectively
curbed the inflammatory surge and mitigated adverse gestational and
neonatal outcomes; no comparable effects were observed with nifedipine.
Highlighting the efficacy of rytvela as a relevant treatment option for PTB,
these findings substantiate a major preclinical development for addressing
this unmet medical need unfulfilled by tocolytic agents.
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 111A
T-024
Evaluating Low-Dose Combinations of Nifedipine, Indomethacin, and
Aminophylline for Tocolytic Synergisms. Md Reduanul Hossain, Marina
Paul, Jorge M Tolosa, Roger Smith, Jonathan W Paul∗. The University of
Newcastle, Newcastle, Australia.
Introduction: The lack of specificity of tocolytic drugs leads to off-target
maternal and fetal side effects that hamper their clinical usefulness.
Achieving effective tocolysis (preterm birth management) may be
facilitated by combining tocolytics that produce synergisms, enabling
tocolytic efficacy to be achieved at reduced doses that avoid systemic
toxicity. Hypothesis: As nifedipine, indomethacin, and aminophylline
act upon different cellular components/pathways, we hypothesized that
combinations of these agents would produce tocolytic synergisms. Aims:
To quantitatively assess and confirm whether dual and triple combinations
of nifedipine, indomethacin, and aminophylline produce tocolytic
synergisms against pregnant human myometrial contractions ex vivo.
Methods: Spontaneously contracting pregnant human myometrial strips
were treated with IC25 or IC50 concentrations of three dual tocolytic
combinations (nifedipine + indomethacin, nifedipine + aminophylline,
or indomethacin + aminophylline) and one triple tocolytic combination
(nifedipine + indomethacin + aminophylline). The area under the
curve (AUC) for the baseline contractility (100%) (pre-treatment) and
following combination treatment (post-treatment) was measured for
1 h. The theoretically expected percent inhibition was calculated for
each combination using the Bliss Independence Model(based on the
individual tocolytic effects) and compared with the experimentally
observed inhibition. The combinational effect was deemed synergistic if
the experimentally observed inhibition was significantly greater than the
theoretically expected inhibition.
Results: Contraction inhibition was significantly greater than expected
(synergistic) for the dual tocolytic combinations of nifedipine +
indomethacin (n=6; p=0.0003) and nifedipine + aminophylline (n=6;
p=0.0002), whereas the combination of indomethacin + aminophylline
was additive (n=6; p=0.25). The triple combination of nifedipine +
indomethacin + aminophylline was also synergistic (n=6; p=0.0004) and
abolished ex vivo contractions when the three tocolytics were combined
at their respective IC25 concentrations.
Conclusion: Previous studies have examined combinational tocolysis,
however, few have utilized assessment models to quantitatively confirm
synergism. Here, we quantitatively confirmed that two dual tocolytic
combinations and one triple tocolytic combination yielded synergisms
against pregnant human myometrial contractions ex vivo. Our studies
indicate that combining tocolytics that act on different myometrial
signaling pathways is likely to yield synergism, whereas combining
tocolytics that act on multiple components of the same pathway likely
yields additive effects. These synergistic combinations may allow effective
tocolysis at doses that may avoid side effects that hamper their clinical
usefulness.
T-025
Stretch-Activated Signaling Mediates Uterine Quiescence. Iain L.
o. Buxton∗, Scott D. Barnett∗. University of Nevada, Reno School of
Medicine, Reno, NV, United States.
Introduction: Microvascular endothelial (MEC) and uterine smooth
muscle cells (USMC) in the pregnant human myometrium regulate
uterine relaxation by the action of the stretch-activated channels (SAC)
Piezo1 and TREK-1. MEC sense increased blood flow in the pregnant
myometrium as shear resulting in increased Piezo1-mediated nitric oxide
(NO) production by eNOS. NO activates stretch-activated K+ channels
(TREK-1) by S-nitrosation. TREK-1 hyperpolarizes USMC by increasing
K+ efflux and decreasing the likelihood of contraction. Our goal is to
discover safe and effective medications for obstetric patients by studying
stretch-activated signaling to provide effective treatment of preterm labor.
Methods: We performed membrane polarization experiments in primary
USMC from pregnant patients to determine the effects of Membrane
Potential Experiments: If S-nitrosation of TREK-1 or a TREK-1 partner
results in increased outward K+ efflux, this can be measured as a change
in membrane potential represented as a change in fluorescence in a
monolayer of USMC. Fluorescent dyes that change their optical properties
in response to changes in biological voltage allow the direct observation
of membrane potential and provide a powerful addition to traditional
electrophysiological methods.
Results: Primary USMC were loaded with FluoVolt and treated with the
Piezo1 agonist Yoda1 (10 μM), Yoda1 plus its antagonist Dooku1 (30 μM),
Yoda1 plus the TREK-1 agonist ML335 (100 μM), or ML335 alone (100
μM). Control cells received DMSO (0.5%) employed as a diluent for drug
additions. Fluorescence was stable of a 30-minute experimental test period
in control cells, while Yoda1 treatment produced a time-dependent 23%
hyperpolarization at 30-minutes that was prevented by the simultaneous
addition of Dooku. Addition of ML335 alone hyperpolarized the
monolayer in a biphasic manner with peak effect (45% hyperpolarization)
at 8-minutes returning to baseline at 22-minutes. When Yoda1 and ML335
were added together, hyperpolarization was immediate, and gradually
reached maximal effect of 50% hyperpolarization at 30 minutes. Aggregate
data (n=4) sampled at 30 minutes demonstrated a significant effect of 10
μM Yoda1 (-0.483 ± 0.079, p =0.5). The hyperpolarization produced by
the combination of Yoda1 at 10 μM plus ML335 at 100 μM was highly
significant (-0.703 ± 0.029, p =0.0001).
Conclusion: Stretch-activated channels in the uterine myocyte
hyperpolarize the cell membrane keeping the uterus relaxed during
gestation. Piezo1 and TREK-1 stimulation lowers membrane potential
suggesting that the activation of TREK-1 by ML335 is transient. These
data support our hypothesis and suggest that S-nitrosation of TREK-1
stabilizes depolarization. When taken together with the demonstration
that GSNOR over-expression in spontaneous preterm labor decreases
myocyte GSNO levels, TREK-1 de-deactivation may contribute to the
likelihood of early uterine contraction.
T-026
Selective Targeting of the Interleukin-6 Receptor (IL6R) Reduces
Downstream mRNA Expression Inhibition: Potential Therapeutic
Applications. Wendy Xu†,1 Robert Rizk,2 Terence E. Hebert,2 Sylvain
Chemtob,3 David M. Olson∗.1 1University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB,
Canada; 2McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; 3Universite de
Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
Introduction: IL6 is a key cytokine mediator of preterm birth (PTB). It
binds to its receptor, and this complex binds to the glycoprotein (gp) 130
in a hexameric complex with a 2:2:2 IL-6/IL-6R/gp130 stoichiometry
in the cell membrane to stimulate activation of downstream pathways
JAK/STAT and SHP2-MAPK which involves p38, ERK, and AKT
kinases. In turn, the transcription factor, STAT3, induces a variety of
genes implicated in inflammation including IL6, SOCS3 (suppressor of
cytokine signaling 3), Bcl2, and LPS-binding protein. There are two forms
of the IL6R, a membrane-bound form (mIL6R) and a trans-signaling
pathway involving the soluble receptor (sIL6R) generated by alternative
splicing or by protein cleavage of the mIL6R. We demonstrated that
amnion epithelial cells (AECs) require the sIL6R as they are devoid of
the mIL6R. Tocilizumab (Actemra, TOC) targets both receptors. This
monoclonal antibody blocks PTB in rodent models but exerts orthosteric
activity on the IL6R interfering with all signaling triggered by IL6 which
may not be desirable from a therapeutic perspective. We designed biased
signaling, allosteric, non-competitive modulators that desirably preserve
receptor-coupled transduction to reduce adverse effects by inhibiting only
the phosphorylation of STAT3. These are all-d nonapeptides HSJ633 and
HSJ639 which vary by a single amino acid. They also block PTB. The
objective of our study is to compare IL6 downstream mRNA expression
in AECs with sIL6R and TOC, 633, and 639 inhibitors. We hypothesize
that 633 and 639 preserve more downstream mRNA expression than TOC.
Methods: To assess this, we conducted RNA-seq experiments on
patient-derived primary AECs treated once reaching 80-90% confluence
at Passage 0. These cells were activated with recombinant IL6 with or
without sIL6R (both 100 ng/mL) and responses were antagonized with
TOC, HSJ633, or HSJ639. DESeq2 was used to assess the effects of
TOC, HSJ633, or HSJ639 on IL6 signaling in the presence of the sIL6R.
Results: TOC reduced gene expression levels to baseline while HSJ633
and HSJ639 did not fully reverse the IL6-sIL6R-induced changes.
112A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Heatmap analysis revealed that TOC-treated samples clustered closer to
the baseline condition, whereas HSJ633 and HSJ639 clustered nearer to
the IL6-sIL6R-treated condition. Gene ontology analysis further identified
significant changes in genes related to leukocyte activation, immune
system processes, and cellular responses across the treatments.
Conclusion: These results indicate that more selective targeting of the
IL6 receptor with HSJ633 or HSJ639 may lead to efficacious protection
against PTB with fewer side effects.Funding: CIHR
T-027
The Impact of Ethnicity on PTB Rates and Recruitment to PTB
Studies: Utilising Patient and Public Involvement to Improve
Outcomes. Neeraja Suresh†,1 Sihao Zhao†,1 Katie Mountain,1,2 Sanaa
Riani-El-Achabb,1 Milissa Coker,1 David A MacIntyre,1,3 Vasso Terzidou,1
Phillip R Bennett,1 Annemarie Lodder,1 Lynne Sykes.1,2 1March of Dimes
European Prematurity Research Centre, London, United Kingdom; 2The
Parasol Foundation Centre for Women’s Health and Cancer Research,
London, United Kingdom; 3Robinson Research Institute, Adelaide,
Australia.
Introduction: There is significant ethnic disparity in preterm birth (PTB)
rates, with Black and South Asian women having a 65% and 26% increased
rate of preterm birth respectively compared to White women. Moreover,
women from ethnic minorities are often underrepresented in research
studies. The aim of this study was to report on the rates of PTB in ethnic
minority groups at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust (ICHT), to
determine if there was equity in PTB prevention study recruitment by
ethnicity, and to use patient and public involvement (PPI) to explore
challenges for recruitment.
Methods: PTB rates from the general population was determine using
routinely recorded data from the ICHT Secure data environment Imperial
Clinical Analytics Research and Evaluation (ICARE) from 2018 to 2023
(n=48,098). The PTB rates of women defined as being at high risk was
reported from the ICHT PTB prevention clinic population during 2022
(n=552). Ethnicity distributions between the general maternity population,
the PTB prevention clinic and the Vaginal Microbiome and Metabonome
in pregnancy (VMET2) study populations were compared. Using public
and patient involvement (PPI) activities, including focus groups and a
service evaluation questionnaire, we investigated barriers to PTBP study
participation for women of ethnic minority.
Results: Black and Asian women had increased PTB rates in the local
Trust population compared to White women. Within the ‘at risk’ clinic
population, rates were higher in Black and Asian women compared with
White women (19.19% vs 5.77%, p=0.0001 and 18.56% vs 5.77%,
p<0.0001 respectively). PPI activities identified mistrust, language
barriers, stress, female genital mutilation concerns, and racism as
participation barriers. Despite this, the ethnicity of women recruited
to the VMET2 study were representative of the PTB clinic population.
Conclusion: A pronounced disparity exists in PTB risk in women of ethnic
minority. The use of PPI should be embedded into all studies to ensure
equity and representation of all ethnicities in active research studies.
T-029
Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Anti-Mullerian Hormone
Levels, BMI, and Ovarian Reserve in Chilean Women with PCOS.
Matías Carrasco-Cabezas,1 Felipe Barcasa,1 Constanza Inostroza,1 Barbara
Echiburú,2 Manuel Maliqueo,2 Nicolas Crisosto,2 Francisca Salas-Perez.1
1Universidad de O´Higgins, Rancagua, Chile; 2Universidad de Chile,
Santiago, Chile.
Introduction: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a prevalent
endocrine disorder in reproductive-age women, marked by a complex
etiology and a wide range of clinical disturbances, such as irregular
menstruation and hyperandrogenism. Combined oral contraceptives
(COCs) are first-line treatments to improve these features. The Anti-
Mullerian Hormone (AMH) has been identified as a valuable biomarker
of PCOS and polycystic ovarian morphology (PCOM). This study aims
to evaluate the impact of COCs on AMH levels and their correlation with
clinical outcomes in Chilean women and controls.
Methods: A total of 75 Chilean women aged 18-34 y.o. with PCOS and
normoandrogenic controls were recruited and classified into the following
groups: Control (n=24), Control with COCs (n=14), PCOS (n=26),
and PCOS with COCs (n=10). Anthropometric measurements were
recorded, and transvaginal ultrasounds were performed to assess ovarian
volume, follicle count, and PCOM. Serum samples were collected, and
endocrine markers were quantified according to standardized procedures.
Testosterone, androstenedione, estradiol, and 17-hydroxyprogesterone
(17-OHP) were analyzed using RIA. Sex hormone-binding globulin
(SHBG), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and luteinizing hormone
(LH) were quantified by IRMA. Anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) was
analyzed using ELISA. Clinical and laboratory characteristics were
compared using unpaired Student’s t-test for normally distributed data
or Mann-Whitney U test for data with a non-normal distribution. Oneway
ANOVA was used to analyze three or more independent groups,
followed by Tukey’s post hoc test for multiple comparisons, and Pearson
correlations were performed. p values < 0.05 were considered significant.
Results: AMH levels in the PCOS group were higher compared to the
control group (5.4 ± 3.3 ng/mL vs 3.7 ± 2.3 ng/mL; p:0.04); however,
contraceptive use did not affect AMH levels in both groups. Correlation
analyses showed that AMH levels were positively correlated with Ferriman
score (r: 0.3; p:0.02), total follicular count (r: 0.62; p<0.0001), total ovarian
volume (r:0.26; p:0.02) and PCOM in both ovaries (p<0.05). In addition,
androstenedione (r:0.45; p<0.0001), 17-OHP (r:0.46; p<0.0001), and LH
(r:0.31; p<0.01) were also positively correlated with AMH. Nevertheless,
in our sample, BMI was not associated with AMH levels.
Conclusion: Our results showed that AMH was not affected by COCs
consumption. In addition, AMH levels were positively associated with
hyperandrogenism markers and ovarian reserve, supporting their role as a
surrogate marker for PCOM. However, cut-off values for AMH estimated
using ELISA should be defined in our sample.
T-030
Vasectomy Rates Increased in the Military Health System After
the Dobbs Decision. Lyna A Cherikh,1 Apryl Susi,1 Jill Brown,2 Logan
Peterson,2 Katerina Shvartsman,2 Cade Nylund.2 1Henry M. Jackson
Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine employee under
contract with the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences,
Bethesda, MD, United States; 2Uniformed Services University of the Health
Sciences, Bethesda, MD, United States.
Introduction: The June 2022 Dobbs decision, in conjunction with the
COVID-19 pandemic, may have impacted vasectomy rates in the Military
Health System (MHS). State level abortion restrictions following Dobbs
could influence vasectomy rates regionally.
Methods: The MHS data repository was utilized to create a repeated
cross-sectional study of men aged 21-64. The study spanned from January
2018 to February 2023, which included 7 months post-Dobbs. CPT
codes and ICD-10 diagnosis and procedure codes were used to identify
incident vasectomies. Three different Poisson regression models evaluated
vasectomy rates: 1) by Dobbs time periods, 2) by COVID-19 time periods,
and 3) by overlapping Dobbs and COVID-19 time periods. An interaction
between TRICARE region and the Dobbs time period was evaluated.
Results: Following the Dobbs decision, vasectomy rates increased 18%
among all included beneficiaries (RR 1.18 [95% CI: 1.16, 1.20]), compared
to Pre-Dobbs. Significantly lower vasectomy rates occurred in COVID
Years 1 and 2 as compared to pre-COVID years (RR 0.67 [95% CI: 0.66,
0.69] and 0.96 [95% CI: 0.95, 0.98], respectively), while COVID Year 3
saw an 8% increase in vasectomy rates as compared to pre-COVID years
(RR 1.08 [95% CI: 1.06, 1.09]). Modeling the overlapping COVID-19
periods, the Dobbs decision had an effect on COVID Year 3 as compared
to the Pre-COVID Pre-Dobbs time period. Pre-Dobbs, COVID Year 3
saw a 6% increase in vasectomy rates (RR 1.06 [95% CI: 1.03, 1.08]),
compared to a 9% increase Post-Dobbs in COVID Year 3 (RR 1.09 [95%
CI: 1.07, 1.11]). There was a significant interaction between the Dobbs
time period and TRICARE regions. Vasectomy rates increased in all
TRICARE regions post-Dobbs, with the greatest increase in OCONUS
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 113A
(RR 1.25 [95% CI 1.19, 1.32]), followed by South (RR 1.18 [95% 1.15,
1.22]) and West regions (1.18 [95% CI 1.15, 1.22]), and then the North
(RR 1.13 [1.09, 1.17]).
Conclusion: Following the Dobbs decision, vasectomy rates in the
MHS increased after decreasing during the COVID-19 pandemic, with
the TRICARE OCONUS region seeing the largest relative increase. The
Dobbs decision appears to have played a role in contraceptive decisionmaking
among male military beneficiaries.
T-031
Altered miRNA Cargo in Extracellular Vesicles from Eutopic
Endometrium in Endometriosis: Implications for Pregnancy Outcomes.
Alba Bas-Rivas†,1 Aitana Merino-Pérez†,1 Ana Corachán†,1 Irene Juárez∗,2
Carmen Vidal∗,3 Amparo Faus∗,1 Antonio Pellicer∗,4 Hortensia Ferrero∗.1
1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVI Foundation, IIS La Fe, Valencia,
Spain; 2Hospital Universitari i Politècnic La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 3IVIRMA
Global Research Alliance, IVIRMA Valencia, Valencia, Spain; 4IVIRMA
Global Research Alliance, IVIRMA Rome, Rome, Italy.
Introduction: Endometriosis is associated with a greater risk of pregnancy
loss and pregnancy disorders. Well-established communication between
endometrial epithelial and stromal cells, immune cells, endothelial cells,
and the embryo is essential for the correct establishment and development
of pregnancy, and extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been proposed as
potential mediators of this crosstalk. This study aimed to elucidate whether
this communication is altered in this condition by analyzing the miRNA
cargo of EVs secreted by organoids from eutopic endometrium of women
with endometriosis during the gestational phase.
Methods: Endometrial organoids were derived from biopsies of eutopic
endometrium from endometriosis and healthy women (n=15/group)
and differentiated into the gestational phase by supplementation with
pregnancy hormones. Conditioned culture media was collected and
pooled (4-5 biopsies/pool), and EVs were isolated by ultracentrifugation
and characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Exoview,
and Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis (NTA). miRNAs were extracted, and
miRNA-seq was performed. Target genes of significantly differentially
expressed miRNAs were obtained from an integration of mirDIP and
miTARBase, and functional enrichment analysis was performed with
G Profiler.
Results: EVs had a mean size of 171 nm and expressed the EV
protein markers CD63, CD9, and CD81. TEM corroborated EV
cup-shaped morphology. Principal Component Analysis (PCA)
revealed a differentiated behavior between groups. miRNA-seq
showed 8 significantly differentially expressed miRNAs (FDR<0.05),
6 downregulated and 2 upregulated. Among which hsa-miR-1290,
hsa-miR-1246, hsa-miR-4516, hsa-miR-191-5p, hsa-miR-335-5p, hsamiR-
12136 and hsa-miR-3065-5p had previously been described as
related to gestational complications or endometriosis pathogenesis. GO
enrichment analysis of miRNA target genes identified 789 biological
processes in endometriosis (FDR<0.05) involved in embryo development
and developmental growth, immune system function and angiogenesis,
which are important for embryo-maternal tolerance and nutrition; and
mesenchymal-epithelial and epithelial-mesenchymal transitions, that are
crucial for embryo for invasion. KEGG pathway analysis revealed 32
deregulated pathways (FDR<0.05), including PI3K-Akt pathway involved
in pathogenesis of preeclampsia.
Conclusion: Altered miRNA cargo of EVs secreted by the eutopic
endometrium in endometriosis is involved in endometriosis pathogenesis
and pregnancy disorders.
T-032
Establishment of the Xenograft Model of Endometriosis Using Human
Endometrial Stromal Cells Overexpressing HOXC8. Hitomi Takasaki†,
Ryo Maekawa∗, Isao Tamura∗, Norihiro Sugino∗. Yamaguchi University
Graduate School of Medicine, Yamaguchi, Japan.
Introduction: Endometriosis is characterized by adhesions and fibrosis,
which cause dysmenorrhea, chronic pelvic pain, and infertility, and suffer
from women’s quality of life. Although low-dose pills and progestins are
used as drug treatments for endometriosis, there is no treatments targeting
adhesions or fibrosis. One of the reasons is that the animal models
are not established to appropriately evaluate fibrosis. We previously
reported that HOXC8 was identified as one of the master regulators of
endometriosis, that overexpression of HOXC8 in the primary endometrial
stromal cells significantly enhanced fibrotic activities, and that HOXC8
was involved in TGF-β signaling. In this study, to obtain the fibrosis
model of endometriosis, we established the xenograft model in which
immortalized human endometrial stromal cells overexpressing HOXC8
were transplanted into the renal capsule in immunodeficient mice.
Methods: ①To establish the stable cell lines overexpressing HOXC8 /
GFP (HOXC8-imESCs) or GFP (control-imESCs), retroviral vectors
overexpressing HOXC8 /GFP and GFP alone were transfected into
immortalized human endometrial stromal cells, respectively. Then, the
cellular functions of the established cell lines were evaluated in vitro.
②HOXC8-imESCs and control-imESCs were transplanted under the
renal capsule of immunodeficient NOD/Scid mice. Five weeks after
transplantation, the xenografts derived from the transplanted cells were
harvested and evaluated for histological features.
Results: ①Cell migration, invasion, and fibrotic activities were
enhanced in HOXC8-imESCs compared to the control-imESCs.
Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that mRNA expression levels
of COL1A1 and TIMP3 were significantly higher in HOXC8-imESCs
compared to the control-imESCs. ②The xenografts derived from the
transplanted cells in both lines were detected under the renal capsule. By
immunohistochemistry, positive cells of vimentin and GFP were detected
in the xenografts from both cell lines. Those cells were also positive for
STEM101 which specifically reacts with human nucleoprotein. HOXC8
was detected exclusively in the xenograft from HOXC8-imESCs, but
not in those from the control-imESCs. Trichrome staining showed that
collagen fibers were accumulated in the xenograft from HOXC8-imESCs
but not in that from the control-imESCs. Moreover, in the xenograft
of control-imESCs, the boundary between the xenografts and renal
parenchyma was clear, while in the xenograft of HOXC8-imESCs, the
boundary was indistinct due to infiltration of inflammatory cells.
Conclusion: We established a fibrosis model of endometriosis using
the xenograft model in which immortalized human endometrial stromal
cells overexpressing HOXC8 were transfected to immunodeficient mice.
T-033
Origins of Endometriosis: A 300-Year-Old Mystery. Ritikaa S Kumar†,
Jeffery Chavez†, Mia Ramos†, Bruce Nicholson∗, Nameer Kirma∗.
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio,
TX, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is a common reproductive disorder that
affects 10% of women. There is no reliable non-surgical diagnosis, and
few treatment options for the disease that currently has no cure. Thus, a
better understanding of its underlying etiology of pre-eminent importance.
The theory of endometriosis is consistent with 90% of cases is Sampson’s
Theory of Retrograde Menstruation.
Methods: A first step to understanding disease origin is to establish
whether the lesions are due to changes in the peritoneal mesothelial cells
(PMCs) or the endometrial stromal & epithelial cells (ESC/EECs). To
further understand the etiology, we looked at each step of cell invasion
that results in lesion formation listed with the results in the results section.
In order to identify the underlying signaling pathways that regulate these
processes, we first assess changes in proteins related to each cellular
behavior upon ESC-PMC contact using single-cell mass cytometry.
Pathways targeted include: cytoskeletal changes associated with motility
and protein trafficking (underlying the induction of GJIC); mesothelialto-
mesenchymal transition and its inverse (MMT) that occurs during
invasion, and; breakdown of the PMC barrier. The functional significance
of identified targets will be tested pharmacologically or by genetic ablation
to map the pathways mediating lesion formation.
Results: Using the steps of cell invasion, we found the following: 1.
ESCs and EECs interaction with the PMCs (knocking on the door):
ESCs from patients adhere most strongly to PMCs and show enhanced
gap junction intercellular coupling (GJIC) with PMCs compared to ESCs
from controls or EECs.
114A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
2. Separation of the PMC barrier (opening the door). ESC-PMC GJIC is
required to induce the breakdown of the PMC barrier and allow invasion.
3. ESC/EEC movement through the separated PMCs (walking through the
door). PMCs enhance ESC motility more in endometriosis than control
patients, a process that also depended on GJIC. As it is also important
to understand the role of EECs, we also looked at the role of them in
invasion assays. Based on our data there is a greater overall invasion of
cells in the presence of EECs compared to ESC alone, and this is most
evident in endometriosis patients. However, the mechanism behind this
is still unknown.
Conclusion: Functional studies of shown that in terms of steps 1 through
3 of invasion, that there is an inherent difference between ESCs from
control subjects and endometriosis patients. Understanding the mechanism
behind these differences will allow us to understand the mechanism of
endometriosis.
T-034
Endometriosis and Treatment Decision-Making in the Context of
Pregnancy Planning. Jalisa L Karim†, Devon Greyson, Mohamed A
Bedaiwy, Gillian E Hanley∗. University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
BC, Canada.
Introduction: Endometriosis is a treatable but incurable condition in
which endometrial-like tissue grows outside the uterus. Endometriosis
patients are at higher risk of infertility and adverse pregnancy outcomes.
Research is still unclear about whether certain endometriosis treatments
may preserve or increase fertility and/or decrease chances of adverse
pregnancy outcomes. This gap in understanding the effects of different
treatments may lead to difficulties deciding between treatments, but
research on treatment decision-making for endometriosis patients is
scarce. The objective of this study is to understand how people with
endometriosis who desire a future pregnancy navigate treatment decisionmaking.
Methods: Data are being collected through semi-structured, in-depth,
individual interviews. Participants must live in British Columbia, Canada,
must have been diagnosed with endometriosis by a medical doctor, and
must either (1) currently be navigating endometriosis treatment decisionmaking
while keeping in mind desire for a future pregnancy, (2) have
experienced infertility in the past 2 years, and/or (3) have been pregnant
in the past 2 years. Three patient partners with endometriosis have been
involved in designing this project.
Results: Preliminary findings suggest that endometriosis patients feel
uninformed about their treatment options in relation to fertility and
pregnancy and want to receive more credible information directly from
their physicians rather than relying on online sources. Many people with
endometriosis feel they lack choice in their treatment plans and report
inadequate informed consent regarding possible side effects of treatments.
Participants also often felt their physicians take a blanket approach to
treatment rather than considering nuances of individual cases, such
as interactions between endometriosis and other chronic conditions.
Endometriosis patients desire more holistic care, with some expressing,
“I didn’t feel like I was looked at like a whole person.” More holistic care
includes being made aware of non-hormonal and non-surgical approaches
to endometriosis management, such as physiotherapy, acupuncture, and
dietary changes. Participants also wished their physicians would have
proactively discussed potential fertility and pregnancy challenges that
can occur with endometriosis, so they could have been better prepared
for their infertility journeys and started family planning at an earlier age.
Conclusion: This study highlights that endometriosis patients are
frustrated with the treatment options available and their education
around these treatments. They desire more holistic care and wish to
be presented with both traditional medical approaches and alternative
health management strategies. Discussions regarding family planning
should take place soon after diagnosis to prepare endometriosis patients
for potential challenges.
T-035
The Role of HOXA11 Antisense Long Non-Coding RNA in
Endometriosis. Ramanaiah Mamillapalli, Maddy Fay, Nimisha Gawde,
Rula Atwani, Irene Moridi, Hugh S Taylor. Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is a gynecological disorder identified by
the growth of endometrial-like tissue outside the uterus. It affects 10% of
reproductive-age women worldwide and causes pelvic pain and infertility.
Current treatments are aimed at the suppression of ovarian activity
and modification of sex steroid hormones; however, they are not fully
effective. Here we identify a long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) HOXA11-
antisense (AS) as regulating growth of endometriosis and as a potential
non-hormonal target to treat women with endometriosis.
Methods: Twenty-two subjects participated in this study after written
consent under an approved institutional review board (IRB) protocol.
Tissue samples were collected from normal subjects (n=11) with no
evidence of endometriosis or from subjects with endometriosis (both
ectopic, n=11, and eutopic, n=11). None had received steroid hormonal
medication for at least 6 months prior to surgery. Total RNA was extracted
by Trizol method from tissue samples. HOXA11-AS levels from human
specimens was analyzed by qRT-PCR. The telomerase immortalized
normal human endometrial stromal cell line (HESC; n=6) and or
endometriosis derived endometrial stromal cell line (ENDO; n=8) were
used to assess the effects of HOXA11-AS on gene expression in-vitro.
A vector containing HOXA11-AS construct was used for transfection
of cell lines. HOXA11_AS as well as several genes associated with
endometriosis were assessed by qRT-PCR. Data was analyzed by student
t-test and Mann-Whitney U Test.
Results: HOXA11-AS was lower in ectopic endometriotic lesions by
81% (p=0.06) compared to eutopic endometrium from women with
endometriosis. There was no difference between eutopic endometrium
in endometriosis and normal endometrium from controls. Similarly,
HOXA11-AS was less abundant in immortalized ENDO cells compared
to normal HESCs (93% decrease; p=0.001). HOXA11-AS plasmid was
used to overexpression this lncRNA in an endometriotic cell line and led
to a significant increase in the expression of BCL2 (1.4 fold, p=0.003),
MMP2 (1.6 fold, p=0.0001), MMP9 (1.8 fold, p=0.003), PTEN (1.5 fold,
p=0.034), AKT1(1.2 fold, p=0.041), Caspase3 (1.3 fold, p=0.041) and
ITGB3 (1.6 fold, p=0.0007) mRNAs while in normal cell line HESC,
only BAX mRNA levels were significantly affected (decreased by 1.25
fold, p=0.025).
Conclusion: Greatly decreased expression of a lncRNA, HOXA11-
AS, contributes to the pathophysiology of endometriosis. This lncRNA
regulated several key drivers of disease and likely has a central role
in driving growth and invasion of endometriosis. Administration of
HOXA11-AS is therefore a potential novel therapy for endometriosis,
which we are currently testing in animal models.
T-037
Unraveling Uterine Fibroids Predictors with All of Us: Using PheWAS
for Phenotypic Insights for Prevention and Early Treatment. Kara
Malone,1 Younga Lee,2 Madelyn Gillentine,3 Lynette Gerido,4 Michelle
Bates,5 Susan Holechek,6 Hamidreza Sharifan,7 Ignatia B Van den Veyver∗.1
1Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States; 2Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States; 3University of Washington,
Seattle, WA, United States; 4Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
OH, United States; 5Fayetteville State University, Fayetteville, NC, United
States; 6Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, United States; 7University
of Texas at El Paso, El Paso, TX, United States.
Introduction: Uterine fibroids (UFs) affect 70-80% of people with a
uterus by age 50, often causing genitourinary issues, including infertility.
While genetic factors like FH gene mutations are known, UF causes
and heritability remain unclear. This study utilizes the All of Us (AoU)
program’s genetic, environmental, and clinical data to identify UF genetic
risk factors and health outcomes.
Methods: We used AoU Researcher Workbench to analyze survey-based
data (Controlled Tier Dataset v7), and to identify rare variants associated
with UF. Phenome-wide association studies (PheWAS) examine genetic
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 115A
variants independent of additive effects across a wide range of clinical
phenotypes recorded in electronic health records (EHR). Using ICD-10
codes and self-reports from the Personal Medical History Survey, we
performed PheWAS to investigate the association between UF and a
wide range of phenotypes.
Results: Among 287,012 AoU participants, 15,374 had a UF diagnosis
recorded in EHR (5.4% prevalence), and 56,966 reported UF in surveys.
Rare variant analysis found nearly 200 rare (MAF <0.01% in gnomAD
and/or AoU) predicted pathogenic (CADD >=20) heterozygous germline
variants in the FH gene among those with a history of UF. With a
family history of UF (n = 158/24,233), self-reported history of UF (n
= 217/56,966), or UF based on EHR (n = 50/15,374), 0.7%, 0.4%, and
0.3%, have a predicted pathogenic variant in FH, respectively. A significant
association was found between FH variants and a family history of UF (p =
0.04). PheWAS identified links between UF and genitourinary conditions,
including menometrorrhagia.
Conclusion: Analysis of AoU rare variants for FH showed that less
than 1% of people with UF carry a pathogenic variant, mostly in those
with a family history. This accounts for a small portion of the genetic
contribution to UF, as somatic variants in other genes like MED12 are not
captured by AoU. Findings demonstrate that AoU can identify UF patients,
including those with high-risk FH variants associated with hereditary
leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer. Utilizing AoU data and PheWAS
for risk factor identification and broader health impact exploration could
inform new personalized treatments and early intervention. Future GWAS
could show associations between specific genes, UF, and comorbidities,
leading to targeted therapies that may reduce UF-related infertility,
complications, and surgical risks, while improving reproductive health.
T-038
Expression Profiling of Circadian Related Genes in Leiomyoma and
Paired Myometrium. Tsai-Der Chuang, Nhu Ton, Shawn Rysling, Omid
Khorram. The Lundquist Institute at UCLA Medical Center, Torrance,
CA, United States.
Introduction: Circadian-associated genes have been implicated in fibrosis
across various diseases, but their roles in leiomyomas remain unclear. The
objective of this study was to profile the expression of circadian related
genes in leiomyomas and paired myometrium.
Methods: qRT-PCR were used to systematically profile the differentially
expressed circadian associated genes in leiomyoma and paired
Myometrium (n=66). The MED12 mutation status of the 66 pairs
specimens by Sanger sequencing indicated that 43 specimens were
MED12-mutated and 23 specimens were not mutated. Student’s t-tests
with non-parametric tests were used for data analysis. Comparisons
involving two groups was analyzed using Wilcoxon matched pairs signed
rank test or Mann Whitney test as appropriate.
Results: Our analysis revealed a significant increase in the mRNA
expression of RORB, Timeless, ARNT2, CX3CR1, DACT1, DACT2,
DACT3, SATB2, NRG1, NREP, and NRCAM, and decreased mRNA
expression of PER1, PER2, PER3, CRY2, ARNTL, RORA, and SIRT1 in
leiomyomas compared to matched myometrium. No significant changes
were observed in the mRNA expression of CRY1, NR1D1, NR1D2,
NRG2, and CLOCK. Among the differentially expressed genes, the
expression of DACT1, DACT2, DACT3, NRCAM, Timeless, NREP,
and CRY2 was correlated with MED12 mutation status in leiomyomas.
Because TGF-β3 is overexpressed in leiomyomas and plays a critical role
in extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition, we investigated its effects on
circadian-related genes. Our results showed that incubation of primary
leiomyoma cells with TGF-β3 (5ng/ml) for 48 hrs resulted in upregulation
of DACT1, DACT3, and NRG1 mRNA, and downregulation of PER1
and PER3.
Conclusion: Collectively, these findings indicate the potential role of
circadian-associated genes in the pathogenesis of leiomyomas, particularly
in the accumulation of extracellular matrix.
T-039
Activated Adenosine Receptor A2B (Adora2b) Suppress the Growth of
Uterine Leiomyomas by Modulating Akt Signaling Pathways. Xiaofang
Guo†,1 Rodrigo Rosado1,1 Jake Rymer,1 Burak Un,1 Ozlem Guzeloglu-
Kayisli1,1 Umit Kayisli,1 Brittney Short,2 Thomas Rutherford,2 Matthew
Anderson∗.1 1College of Medicine, Tampa, FL, United States; 2Tampa
General Hospital Cancer Institute, Tampa, FL, United States.
Introduction: Uterine leiomyomas are benign proliferations of uterine
smooth muscle that arise from tissue-specific myometrial stem cells.
Previously, we reported that restricted patterns of CD73 expression and
reduced adenosine levels promote growth by regulating Akt signaling
pathway. However, at least four distinct transmembrane adenosine
receptors (A1, 2A, 2B, and 3) have been identified. We hypothesized that
one or more of these receptors mediate proliferation within the leiomyoma
complex in response to dysregulated CD73 expression.
Methods: After obtaining IRB approval, selective adenosine receptor
agonist and antagonists were screened for their ability to mimic or inhibit
the impact of 2-CL-AD, a hydrolysis resistant adenosine analog, using
primary cell lines established as previously described. Expression of
adenosine receptor 2B (ADORA2B) was evaluated by semi-quantitative
real-time PCR (RT-qPCR), Western blot and immunohistochemistry (IHC)
and targeted by transcript-specific siRNAs. Proliferation was measured
using a commercially available assay (Promega). Antibodies for Akt
(pSer473) and CylinD1 were obtained from Cell Signaling. Statistical
significance was assessed using two-tailed paired Student’s t-tests.
Results: Only BAY60-6583, a selective ADORA2B agonist, mimicked
the impact of 2-CL-AD and inhibited the proliferation of primary cultures
(n=3) derived from healthy myometrium and leiomyoma cells in a doseand
time- dependent manner (IC50 = 4.1 μM). By IHC, diffuse ADORA2B
expression was noted in myocytes throughout healthy myometrium and
leiomyomas (n=12). No difference in levels of ADORA2B expression was
observed in matched specimens of healthy myometrium and leiomyoma
by Western blot or qPCR. ADORA2B knockdown resulted in increased
levels of P-Akt and cyclin D1 when compared to controls transfected
with scrambled non-targeting siRNAs (n=3, p<0.05). In contrast, the
ADORA2B-specific agonist BAY60-6583 suppressed the proliferation
in primary leiomyoma cultures and resulted in markedly decreased levels
of P-Akt and cyclin D1 expression (n=3, p<0.05).
Conclusion: The low-affinity 2B adenosine receptor (ADORA2B) is
robustly expressed in uterine leiomyomas where it appears to inhibit
myocyte growth in response to high concentrations of extracellular
adenosine. Clinically, targeting ADORA2B-mediated signaling may
provide a novel, non-hormonal alternative to stall the growth of
leiomyomas and manage clinical symptoms. However, further work will
also be necessary to assess the degree to which other ADORA potentially
contribute to leiomyoma growth.
T-040
Socioeconomic Disparities in Emergency Department Utilization
for Fibroids in the United States, 2016-2021. Danielle Jean†,1 Vanessa
Haizel†,2 Courtney Lim,1 Anita Malone,1 Charley Jiang,1 Erica E. Marsh.1
1University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States; 2Trinity Health,
Ann Arbor, MI, United States.
Introduction: Uterine fibroids are a prevalent condition in women. In the
U.S., those affected may seek care in the emergency department (ED),
resulting in higher healthcare costs to manage this condition. Identifying
trends in ED utilization for fibroids can guide efforts to optimize care.
Methods: We examined data from the Nationwide Emergency Department
Sample for women aged 18-55 with all ED visits from 2016-2021 listing
ICD-10 codes for fibroids as the primary diagnosis. Visits for all other
diagnosis codes were the comparison group. Sociodemographic and
hospital characteristics were compared between groups using T-test
and Chi square tests. Race/ethnicity data were available for 2019-2021.
We used multivariable logistic regression models to determine factors
associated with hospital admission for fibroids.
Results: From 2016-2021, 371,050 women aged 18-55 presented to the
ED for fibroids as their primary diagnosis. Compared to other diagnoses,
those aged 36-45 had a higher ED visit percentage for fibroids (43.6%
116A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
vs 23.6%; p<.001), as did women living in high-density areas (69.2% vs
50.5%; p<.001). Patients were more likely to be admitted for fibroids than
for other diagnoses (10.52% vs 8.36%; p<.001). Admission with fibroids
as the primary diagnosis was affected by age (p<.001), hospital region
(p<.001), and income (p=.036). Regarding race/ethnicity (2019-2021),
White patients were 50.8% of all ED visits, but 24.2% of those for fibroids.
Black patients were 24.9% of all ED visits, but 44.2% of those for fibroids.
Hispanic patients were 17.9% of all ED visits and 23.5% of those for
fibroids. Admission rates for fibroids by race were 12.1% Hispanic, 9.5%
Black, and 9.3% White. Despite only representing 3.2% of ED visits for
fibroids, Asian-American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) patients were more
likely to be admitted for fibroids than Black patients (OR: 1.51; 95% CI
1.24-1.83). Overall, mean charges associated with ED visits for fibroids
were $9164, nearly double those for all other diagnoses ($4959, p<.001).
Mean charges for fibroids varied by race, with lowest charges for Native
American ($7861) and Black ($9195) women and highest for Hispanic
women ($10,625), p=.016.
Conclusion: This study highlights socioeconomic and demographic
differences in ED utilization and admission for uterine fibroids. While
Black patients had the highest percentage of ED visits for fibroids, AAPI
patients were most likely to be admitted, possibly indicating more severe
disease at presentation, suboptimal outpatient management, or disparity in
admission decisions. Our findings also demonstrate disparate healthcare
expenditures for ED care of fibroids. Further studies are needed to identify
upstream interventions for improving access to outpatient care, addressing
fibroid disparities, and reducing costs for this condition.
T-041
Maternal and Neonatal Outcomes in Pregnant Patients with a History
of Fibroids. Amelia H. Gagliuso†, Bharti Garg, Megha Arora, Aaron B.
Caughey∗. Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, United
States.
Introduction: Uterine leiomyomas are the most common benign pelvic
tumor in women and studies have previously found an association between
fibroids and cesarean delivery. Data on the relationship between fibroids
and neonatal outcomes is more rare. The purpose of this study was to
examine the risk of adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes among
pregnant individuals with fibroids.
Methods: A retrospective cohort study using linked birth certificatehospital
discharge data in California from 2008 - 2020 was conducted
to examine association of fibroids with adverse maternal and neonatal
outcomes. We included singleton, non-anomalous births with gestational
age of 23-42 weeks. Participant demographics and outcomes were
compared using chi-square test. We performed multivariable logistic
regression controlling for age, race/ethnicity, education, BMI, insurance
type, chronic hypertension, and preexisting diabetes to estimate the
adjusted odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals. All analyses were
further stratified by age (<35 vs ≥35 years old), race/ethnicity (non-
Hispanic white, non-Hispanic Black, Hispanic, Asian/Pacific Islander,
American Indian/Alaska Native) and insurance (public vs private).
Analyses were done using Stata 18.
Results: A total of 5,065,732 pregnant individuals were included, of
which 1.5% (77,226) had fibroids documented. Pregnant individuals with
fibroids had higher odds of gestational hypertension (aOR=1.51; 95%
CI: 1.46-1.56), preeclampsia (aOR=1.65; 95% CI: 1.60-1.70), placental
abruption (1.71; 95% CI: 1.61-1.81), breech presentation (aOR=2.90; 95%
CI: 2.83-2.97), and placenta previa (2.69; 95% CI: 2.55-2.83). Patients
with fibroid had higher odds of neonatal complications including small
for gestational age (aOR=1.26; 95% CI: 1.23-1.29), respiratory distress
syndrome (aOR=1.61; 95% CI: 1.56-1.67), infant death (aOR=1.43;
95% CI: 1.23-1.66), intraventricular hemorrhage (aOR=1.90; 95% CI:
1.57-2.28), and hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (aOR=1.83; 95% CI:
1.49-2.24). The adjusted odds ratio stayed in the same direction for each
stratified group. In stratified analyses, there were increased odds of adverse
perinatal outcomes with fibroids without differences between age, race/
ethnicity or insurance groups.
Conclusion: Fibroids in pregnancy are associated with both adverse
maternal and neonatal outcomes. The findings were consistent in each age
group, race/ethnicity and insurance, so these findings are less likely due to
potential confounding. Determining how these adverse outcomes might
be reduced in patients with fibroids deserves future attention.
T-042
Uterine Preserving Surgery Compared to Hysterectomy is Associated
with Better Cardiovascular Health in Patients with Uterine Fibroids.
Rachel Michel†,1 Sydney L Olson†,1 Gregory W Kirschen†,2 Lisa Yanek∗,1
Katie Cameron∗,1 Wendy Bennett∗,1 Mostafa A Borahay∗.1 1Johns
Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States; 2University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.
Introduction: Hysterectomy is associated with poor cardiometabolic
health. However, the impact of myomectomy on cardiometabolic health
is unknown. In this study, we sought to examine the cardiometabolic
outcomes after myomectomy compared to hysterectomy. Furthermore,
studies examining hysterectomy versus no hysterectomy did not include
the underlying gynecological indication in their comparison group.
Therefore, we also sought to examine if the increased cardiometabolic
risk after hysterectomy persists when the control group also has fibroids.
Methods: Using the validated Marketscan Database, we conducted
a retrospective cohort study including women between 18-55 with
a uterine fibroid diagnosis in 2010-2011 with at least 10 years of
continuous enrollment. We then excluded prevalent cardiometabolic
conditions (n=26,113) in the cohort. The cardiometabolic conditions
were defined using ICD9 and ICD10 codes and include coronary artery
disease, congestive heart failure, cardiac arrhythmias, cerebrovascular
disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, type 2 diabetes (T2D), obesity,
or atherosclerosis and peripheral vascular disease. Using CPT codes
for identification, we stratified the cohort into 3 exposures: those who
underwent a myomectomy (n= 808), hysterectomy (n= 6,531) in 2010
or 2011, and those with no surgery over the 10 years (n= 18,774). We
excluded patients who received any surgery after the enrollment period
of 2010-2011 to ensure accurate comparisons of each exposure. We used
logistic regression models to calculate age-adjusted odds ratio for each
cardiometabolic outcome. We used SAS software for the analyses.
Results: After adjusting for age, patients who underwent hysterectomy
had higher incidence of coronary artery disease (OR = 1.43, p= 0.0405),
hyperlipidemia (OR = 1.31, p= 0.0012), T2D (OR = 1.31, p= 0.0161),
hypertension (OR = 1.27, p= 0.007), and obesity (OR = 1.29, p= 0.002)
compared to those who underwent myomectomy. Further, after adjusting
for age, patients who underwent hysterectomy had higher incidence of
obesity (OR = 1.33, p<.0001), diabetes mellitus (OR = 1.28, p<.0001),
hyperlipidemia (OR = 1.21, p<.0001), hypertension (OR = 1.22, p <.0001),
coronary artery disease (OR = 1.16, p= 0.0054), and cerebrovascular
disease (OR = 1.15, p= 0.0105) compared to those who did not undergo
surgery.
Conclusion: People with uterine fibroids who underwent hysterectomy
were associated with greater risk for developing cardiometabolic outcomes
than those who underwent myomectomy and those who did not receive
surgical management. Further evidence is needed using clinical trials
to inform counseling of patients on comparative benefits and risks of
fibroid management.
T-043
Anti-Hypertensives Identified as Therapeutic Candidates for Uterine
Fibroids Using Genetically Informed Drug Repurposing Approaches.
Jeewoo Kim†,1 Nikhil K Khankari,2 Joseph A DeCorte†,1 Jacklyn N
Hellwege∗,2 Digna R Velez Edwards∗,2 Todd L Edwards∗.2 1Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, TN, United States; 2Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, TN, United States.
Introduction: Uterine leiomyomata (fibroids) are benign tumors
affecting up to 80% of people with a uterus by age 50. One fibroids
risk factor is hypertension, and there are significant racial disparities
of both hypertension and fibroids. Hysterectomy is the only curative
treatment, and other surgical treatments have multiple contraindications
and high recurrence rates. Current medications lack long-term efficacy.
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 117A
Repurposing approved medications can identify new treatment options for
reducing fibroid risk. Using genetic proxies, we identified novel fibroid
drug candidates and estimated effects on risk of fibroids diagnosis.
Methods: We performed a genetically predicted gene expression (GPGE)
analysis using S-PrediXcan and GTEx tissue models with multi-ancestry
genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics for fibroids
from 540,104 individuals. There were 81 genes significantly associated
with fibroid risk. Querying drug-gene interaction databases identified
56 approved medications that target these genes, including two antihypertensives,
hydralazine and spironolactone. We used independent
multi-ancestry GWAS summary statistics from 635,969 individuals
for systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP)
and conducted GPGE analyses. Blood pressure (exposure) and fibroids
(outcome) GPGE summary statistics in the same tissues were used for
two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses to proxy medication
effects.
Results: GPGE analyses identified hydralazine/tumor protein P53 (TP53)
activity and spironolactone/thyroid hormone receptor beta (THRB) activity
as drug-gene candidate pairs. Both drugs increase gene activity of their
paired gene. Increased TP53 expression was associated (p < 0.05) with
SBP values in four tissues (exposure). The inverse variance weighted
(IVW)-MR results indicated that hydralazine use, proxied by increased
TP53 expression, may reduce fibroid risk by 42% per standard deviation
of gene expression (odds ratio [OR] = 0.58, 95% confidence interval [CI]
= 0.49 - 0.67, p = 1.43x10-12). Increased THRB expression was associated
with DBP in eight tissues and were included in the MR (exposure). The
IVW-MR results indicated that spironolactone use, proxied by increased
THRB expression, may reduce fibroid risk by 23% per standard deviation
of gene expression (OR = 0.77, 95% CI = 0.69 - 0.86, p =5.94x10-6).
Conclusion: We provide biologically plausible evidence for repurposing
hydralazine and spironolactone for reducing risk of fibroid diagnosis.
Repurposing these hypertension medications could provide novel
preventative treatments for fibroids, particularly for individuals
disproportionately affected by both conditions.
T-044
Therapeutic Potential of 15dPGJ2 in Mitigating Abnormal Uterine
Bleeding Induced by Progestin-Only Long-Acting Reversible
Contraceptives. Burak Un†, Ozlem Guzeloglu-Kayisli, Asli Ozmen,
Busra Cetinkaya-Un, Lana Almukhtar, Anna Wilson, Umit A. Kayisli,
Charles J. Lockwood∗. Dept of Ob/Gyn, Morsani College of Medicine,
University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.
Introduction: Progestin-only long-acting reversible contraceptives
(pLARCs) are highly effective at preventing unintended pregnancies,
but users frequently discontinue them due to abnormal uterine bleeding
(AUB). We showed that pLARCs induce decidualization-dependent
tissue factor overexpression in human endometrial stromal cells (HESCs),
causing excess generation of thrombin, which enhances VEGF, IL-8
and MMP-1 levels, leading to aberrant angiogenesis, inflammation
and excessive perivascular proteolysis. FKBP51, a progestin and
glucocorticoid induced co-chaperone, binds to and inhibits both PR
and GR activity. We also showed that pLARC users display enhanced
levels of FKBP51, which induces functional progesterone and/or
glucocorticoid withdrawal, contributing to endometrial inflammation,
aberrant angiogenesis, and AUB. Our initial drug screening identified
15-deoxy-delta-12-14-prostaglandin-J2 (15dPGJ2), a prostaglandin
D2 derivative, as an inhibitor of progestin and glucocorticoid-induced
FKBP51 levels. Thus, we posit that adding 15dPGJ2 to progestinmediated
contraception inhibits endometrial inflammation and/or aberrant
angiogenesis, mitigating pLARC-induced AUB.
Methods: FKBP5 levels were evaluated by qPCR in primary
HESC cultures (n=3) treated with 10-8M estradiol (E) or E+ 10-7M
medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) ± 0.1 or 1x10-5M 15dPGJ2 for 6h.
Proinflammatory IL1B and PTGS2 (COX2) levels in HESCs treated with
vehicle or 10 ng/ml IL-1β or 1 IU/ml thrombin ±10-5M 15dPGJ2 were
measured by qPCR. Cell proliferation was evaluated by XTT viability
assays in primary human endometrial endothelial cell (HEEC) cultures
(n=3) treated with 10-7M MPA ± 0.1, 0,5 or 1x10-5M 15dPGJ2 for 48
and 96h. One-Way ANOVA was used for statistical analysis with <0.05
considered significant.
Results: MPA significantly increased FKBP5 levels by 7-fold vs. control
(P<0.001) while 15dPGJ2 significantly inhibiting MPA-induced FKBP5
levels in a dose dependent manner (P<0.05). Both IL-1β and thrombin
significantly elevated expression of IL1B by 26- and 4-fold, respectively,
and PTGS2 by 16- and 4-fold, respectively vs. control, with 15dPGJ2
significantly reversing IL-1β or thrombin induced IL1B and PTGS2 levels
(P<0.05). 15dPGJ2 significantly inhibited HEEC proliferation in a dosedependent
manner, with the strongest effect detected at 10-5M (P<0.01)
in both 48 and 96h cultures.
Conclusion: These findings indicate that 15dPGJ2 enhances progestin
responsiveness by inhibiting FKBP51 levels, mitigating IL-1β and
thrombin-induced inflammation as well as aberrant angiogenesis in
endometrial cells. This suggests that combining 15dPGJ2 with any pLARC
formulation may reduce or prevent pLARC-induced AUB.
T-045
Physiological Edge-Constrained Reconstruction for Uterine Peristalsis
Imaging (UPI). Yuan Nan, Qiuchang Sun, Zichao Wen, Yong Wang.
Washington University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Uterine peristalsis, driven by spontaneous mild contractions
of the inner smooth muscle layer of the uterus, plays a crucial role in
normal menstruation and fertility. Disruptions in peristaltic patterns are
associated with various reproductive disorders, including subfertility,
abnormal uterine bleeding, ovulatory dysfunction, and endometriosis.
However, current methods for imaging and assessing uterine peristalsis
in humans are significantly limited, creating challenges for research and
clinical applications. To address those limitations and unmet clinical needs,
Uterine peristalsis imaging (UPI) has been developed and validated for
human applications.
Methods: This study introduces an advanced imaging and computational
framework for UPI, based on general physiological information, to
accurately image uterine peristalsis. A key innovation in our approach
is incorporating a surface edge constraint within a 3D triangular mesh
model of the uterus. This edge constraint enforces the spatial similarity
of biological electromyographic signals along adjacent edges, effectively
removing the measurement and imaging artifacts. Specifically, we
extended the UPI reconstruction matrix with an edge constraint component
to incorporate the spatial smoothness constraint of the electrical static
field. The edge constraint method does not require any strong assumption
of underlying myometrium architecture. Instead, it is grounded solely in
general physiological knowledge about the electrical static field.
Results: With the edge-constrained reconstruction, UPI accurately
captured the electrical activation patterns of uterine peristalsis in six
participants with normal gynecologic health and three participants
diagnosed with endometriosis. Our findings revealed changes in peristalsis
frequency, direction, magnitude, and duration across the menstrual cycle,
with pronounced disruptions observed in patients with endometriosis.
Including the edge constraint image, the peristalsis duration is more
accurate than reconstructions without the constraint, providing more
physiologically meaningful results.
Conclusion: These findings suggest that altered peristaltic patterns
may contribute to retrograde menstruation and infertility. Our approach
offers a novel tool for improving the understanding and management of
reproductive disorders, particularly in conditions like endometriosis. The
edge constraint-based UPI can offer better imaging and quantification of
peristalsis duration, significantly enhancing UPI findings’ physiological
accuracy.
T-046
Python-Based Platform for Uterine Peristalsis Imaging(UPI) and
Computation. Qiuchang Sun, Yuan Nan, Zichao Wen, Yong Wang.
Washington University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Uterine Peristaltic Imaging (UPI) is a powerful technique
for imaging uterine peristaltic patterns during human menstrual cycles.
Using multi-channel (128) electromyography data and 3D structural
118A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
information derived from MRI and biocompatible markers, this innovative
noninvasive technology involves a series pipeline modules of signal
processing, geometric transformation, inverse imaging reconstruction,
feature engineering, and visualization with human-computer interactive
annotation. However, robust software platform for quick UPI prototyping,
implementation and result review is unavailable.
Methods: We developed a Python-based UPI platform designed to
streamline the development and deployment of UPI technology. This
flexible UPI platform supports rapid prototyping, imaging reconstruction,
advanced analysis, and seamless visualization, offering an efficient and
flexible solution.
Results: The Python-based UPI software reduces UPI reconstruction
time from 30 minutes to 1 minute per sample, enabling near-real-time
imaging, analysis, and visualization for result review. It allows for
efficient parameter tuning and flexible module selection, adapting to the
unique demands of different gynecological applications. Additionally,
it improves the accuracy of peristalsis annotation and includes modules
for fast parameter optimization and UPI prototyping, tailored for various
gynecological applications. This Python platform sets a solid stage for
machine learning-based UPI data processing.
Conclusion: This Python-based UPI platform serves as an all-in-one
solution for developing and implementing UPI. It provides a strong
foundation for future UPI advancements, such as incorporating novel
inverse computation techniques and artificial intelligence-based algorithms
to accurately predict patient’s clinical outcomes based on UPI findings.
The platform’s efficiency and flexibility present significant potential for
researchers and clinical professionals to deepen their understanding of the
electrophysiological complexities in gynecological health.
T-047
Plasma Proteome of Primary Ovarian Insufficiency Women Reflects
Ovarian Age-Related Alterations. Anna Buigues†,1 Nuria Pellicer†,2
Jessica Martínez†,1 Antonio Pellicer∗,3 Sonia Herraiz∗.1 1IVIRMA Global
Research Alliance, IVI Foundation-IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2IVIRMA
Global Research Alliance, IVIRMA, Valencia, Spain; 3IVIRMA Global
Research Alliance, IVIRMA, Rome, Italy.
Introduction: Blood is a sensitive marker of functional aging, actively
contributing to this process. Younger blood is mainly composed by
growth factors and exhibits low levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines,
while with aging growth factors decrease and pro-inflammatory cytokines
rise. Indeed, bloodborne soluble factors of younger individuals can
reverse certain aspects and clinical signs of aging. Given that primary
ovarian insufficiency (POI) represents an acceleration of ovarian aging,
we hypothesized that the plasma proteome of POI women might contain
distinct proteins reflecting this ovarian condition.
Methods: Peripheral blood was collected from 10 POI (34.3±3.1 yrs) and
5 normoresponder fertile (33.6±3.1 yrs) women. Plasma proteins were
isolated and measured using the data-independent acquisition parallel
accumulation serial fragmentation (diaPASEF) method. Then, proteomic
profiles of POI and normoresponder women were compared using the
Limma package to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and
functional analysis was performed to determine enriched KEGG pathways
(false discovery rate<0.05), Finally, DEPs were compared to gene sets of
ovarian aging-related processes and to previously published differentially
expressed genes in aged human ovaries (Wu et al., Nature, 2024).
Results: The heatmap of all quantified proteins showed a clear separation
between plasma samples from POI and normoresponder women. A total
of 145 DEPs were found between both groups: 66 upregulated and
58 downregulated. Functional analysis revealed that complement and
coagulation cascades were upregulated while oocyte meiosis, PI3KAkt
and Hippo signaling pathways, focal adhesion, and cell cycle were
downregulated. Among the DEPs, 14 were involved in cellular senescence,
10 in extracellular matrix accumulation, 16 in aggravated inflammatory
response, 17 in loss of proteostasis, 8 in dysregulation of lipid metabolism
and 8 in genomic instability- all considered as hallmarks of ovarian
aging. When compared to age-related changes in the ovary, 21 DEPs
(14%) overlapped with those observed in middle-age ovaries (36-39 yrs),
and 33 (23%) with those of aged ovaries (47-49 yrs). We identified the
downregulated proteins ACTA2, POTEF and MYL6, whose expression in
granulosa cells decreases with aging, and the upregulated proteins C1R,
CFH, PGK1 and VCAM1, whose expression increases in aged ovaries.
Conclusion: The plasma proteome of POI patients differs from that of
fertile women, reflecting at the systemic level those expression changes
that occur in the ovaries with aging and disease. Our study provides
valuable insights into the underlying mechanisms of POI, highlighting
potential therapeutic targets to manage this ovarian condition.
T-048
Previable Prelabor Rupture of Membranes (pPROM): Prediction
of Severe Maternal Morbidity. Elana Perry†,1 Kojo Asantey,2 Onur
Turkoglu,3 Sonia Sajja†,1 Ray Bahado-Singh∗.1 1Corewellhealth William
Beaumont University Hospital, Oakland University William Beaumont
School of Medicine, Royal Oak, MI, United States; 2Trinity Health, Ann
Arbor, MI, United States; 3Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX,
United States.
Introduction: The fear of severe maternal morbidity is a major reason
for pregnancy discontinuation in pPROM. The lack of early predictors
is thus a major obstacle to counseling and patient decision-making. We
evaluated clinical algorithms for predicting severe maternal morbidity
(SMM) in pPROM that occurred at <23 weeks gestation.
Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study of non-anomalous
singleton pPROM pregnancies during the years of 2012-2022 that were
candidates for conservative management. Composite maternal morbidity
was defined as the presence of one or more of the following: clinical or
histiological chorioamnionitis or funisitis, sepsis, placental abruption,
blood transfusion, dilation and curettage, ICU admit, hemorrhage, need
for antibiotics, unplanned hysterectomy, acute renal insufficiency, and
postpartum emergency room visit or need for readmission. SMM was
defined as one or more of the following: sepsis, blood transfusion, ICU
admit, unplanned hysterectomy, pulmonary embolus, and acute renal
insufficiency. Logistic regression analysis with 10-fold cross validation
was used to develop predictive models for SMM, the main study objective.
AUC (95%CI), sensitivity and specificity for SMM were calculated.
Results: Of 210 eligible pPROM cases, 160 (76.2%) elected expectant
management (EM) with 50 (23.8%) choosing pregnancy interruption
(PI). The mean gestational age (GA) at pPROM was 20w2d vs 18w3d (p
< 0.001) for the EM vs PI group, respectively. EM was associated with
an increased risk of composite morbidity: OR (95% CI) = 3.42 (1.77 -
6.60), p < 0.001. There were a total of 17 cases (8.1%) with SMM with
no significant difference in SMM frequency between groups: EM vs PI,
OR (95%CI) = 5.44 (0.70-42.18), p = 0.08. Multiple factors including
year of care were evaluated for prediction. The algorithms achieved good
accuracy for severe maternal morbidity. For example, the combination of
initial Hb, WBC count, maternal age and race achieved an AUC (95% CI)
= 0.717 (0.652-0.882), with sensitivity = 72.4% and specificity = 73.7%.
Conclusion: We report the feasibility of algorithms using widely available
clinical parameters for the prediction of severe maternal morbidity in
previable PROM. This is a potentially important tool for counseling
and to aid patient decision-making in those interested in conservative
management.
T-049
Rates of Transfusion Comparing Uterine Vacuum versus Balloon
Tamponade in Management of Postpartum Hemorrhage. Anna
Curtin†, Nithya Sivakumar†, Yakelin Velazquez†, Hanh Nguyen†, Herman
Hedriana∗, Leanna Sudhof∗. University of California Davis, Sacramento,
CA, United States.
Introduction: Hemorrhage remains a leading cause of maternal mortality
in the United States. Placement of an intrauterine device is recommended
for uterine atony when hemostasis is not achieved with more conservative
measures. Historically, intrauterine balloon tamponade devices have been
used. Recently, the JADA System (ORGANON) was introduced to the
market. JADA is a novel FDA approved, vacuum-induced hemorrhage
control device that is placed inside the uterus, like uterine tamponade
balloons. Unlike uterine tamponade balloons, the vacuum results in
physiologic contraction of the uterus. Two prior efficacy studies have
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 119A
demonstrated rapid resolution and successful treatment of hemorrhage
with JADA use. Data is lacking comparing outcomes between JADA and
traditional uterine balloon tamponade devices.
Methods: We performed a retrospective cohort study of women with
a diagnosis of postpartum hemorrhage who had an intrauterine device
placed during their birth hospitalization at a single tertiary care center
from August 2020, when the JADA became FDA approved, to April
2024. Postpartum hemorrhage was defined as total quantitative blood
loss (QBL) of greater than or equal to 1,000 mL after birth. The cohort
was identified using total QBL as documented in the electronic medical
record. Rates of packed red blood cell transfusions were compared
between subjects who received a JADA versus balloon tamponade device
(BT-Cath, Bakri Balloon, or Cook Balloon). Data was analyzed using
Pearson’s Chi-squared test.
Results: Among 1,179 subjects identified with postpartum hemorrhage,
75 had a JADA placed, and 30 had a balloon tamponade device placed.
Baseline characteristics were similar between groups, except for rates
of placenta previa, which were higher in the balloon tamponade group
(17% vs 4%, p=0.041). Use of JADA was associated with lower rates of
red blood cell transfusion when compared to balloon tamponade devices
(48% vs 70%, P=0.041).
Conclusion: Our findings show that the use of JADA devices during
management of postpartum hemorrhage is associated with a lower need
for red blood cell transfusion when compared to use of traditional balloon
tamponade devices. There may have been changes in practice over time
that could have influenced the findings; however, the rapid adoption of
the JADA in clinical practice as the preferred second-line management of
atony does suggest provider preference for this device over the traditional
intrauterine balloon. The real-world data presented here support the
use of vacuum devices in the management of postpartum hemorrhage.
Additional studies are needed to confirm their comparative effectiveness
and evaluate cost effectiveness.
T-050
Intrapartum Clinical Accuracy Limits of Transabdominal Fetal
Oximetry (TFO). Anna Curtin†,1 Kourosh Vali†,2 Conor King†,2 Tailai
Lihe†,2 Begum Kasap†,2 Soheil Ghiasi∗,2 Herman Hedriana∗.1 1University
of California Davis, Sacramento, CA, United States; 2University of
California Davis, Davis, CA, United States.
Introduction: Fetal monitoring during labor and delivery has not
changed over the past 50 years. Fetal blood oxygen saturation, a key
indicator of fetal well-being, is not conveniently available during labor.
Thus, obstetricians are forced to rely on fetal heart rate tracings as an
imperfect measure of fetal well-being. We have developed a non-invasive
TFO device aimed at determining fetal arterial blood oxygen saturation
via pulse oximetry (SpO2). A TFO device must be able to discriminate
between fetal and maternal signal to accurately determine fetal SpO2.
We hypothesize that our technology is capable of distinguishing between
maternal and fetal cardiac signals during labor and subsequently
determining fetal SpO2. This study analyzes how uterine contractions and
maternal movement may impact TFO’s ability to acquire fetal signals,
characterizing clinical operational limitations of the device in labor.
Methods: The TFO device was placed on a subject’s abdomen during
active labor, defined as cervical dilation ≥6 centimeters. Continuous
optical data and motion data from the TFO device were collected until
time of delivery. Data was also collected from the current standard of care
electronic fetal monitor (EFM) and maternal contraction monitor (MCM)
throughout the duration of the study. Optical data from the TFO device was
compared to EFM and MCM data. Optical data was also assessed during
gross maternal movements, which were identified through the motion data.
Results: Recurrent, regularly timed periods of reduced TFO optical signal
were noted throughout the study. When comparing the timing of altered
signal detection to EFM and MCM data, the reduced signal acquisition
was found to directly correlate with timing of individual contractions. In
addition, changes in TFO optical signal were seen coinciding with gross
maternal movements.
Conclusion: Uterine contractions and maternal movement may interfere
with the optical signal detected by the TFO system during labor. This is
important information that needs to be accounted for when making future
improvements to the TFO device prototype.
T-051
The Impact of the COVID Lockdown on Preterm Birth and Its
Predictive miRNA Biomarkers. Nicolette Wong†,1 Sung Hye Kim,2,3
Lucia Riaposova,2,3 Maria Arianoglou,2,3 David A MacIntyre,2,3 Lynne
Sykes,2,3,4 Phillip R Bennett,2,3 Vasso Terzidou.2,3,5 1Imperial College School
of Medicine, London, United Kingdom; 2Imperial College London, London,
United Kingdom; 3March of Dimes Prematurity Research Centre, London,
United Kingdom; 4The Parasol Foundation Centre for Women’s Health
and Cancer Research, London, United Kingdom; 5Imperial College School
of Medicine, Chelsea & Westminster Hospital, London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: The COVID-19 lockdown had several unexpected
consequences, including its effect on preterm birth (PTB) rates and
microRNA (miRNA) expression. PTB remains a prominent cause of
infant mortality and morbidity, for which early detection and prevention
are imperative. Nine miRNAs have previously been identified as potential
predictive biomarkers of PTB in high-risk women, from as early as 12
weeks’ gestation. This study explores the effect of the UK COVID-19
lockdowns on PTB rates, miRNA expression, and their predictive abilities.
Methods: This retrospective cohort study used the low-risk cohort
from the PROPER (Prediction of Preterm Labour) study to validate the
9 previously identified (miR150, miR374a, let7a, miR185, miR15b,
miR23a, miR19b, miR191 and miR93) PTB miRNA markers. Plasma
samples from 2415 pregnant women (12-14+6 weeks gestation) from four
London hospitals underwent miRNA profiling and delivery outcomes
were subsequently recorded. The population was divided into ‘term’
(≥37 weeks’ gestation) and ‘preterm’ (<37 weeks’ gestation) deliveries,
within ‘no lockdown’ and ‘lockdown’ (≥3 months of pregnancy during
lockdown).
Results: PTB rates were found to be lower during lockdown (5.9%)
compared to no lockdown (7.4%) albeit this did not reach statistical
significance. There was no significant change in spontaneous PTB
rates (3.9% in lockdown versus 3.8% in no lockdown). Notably, a clear
difference was observed in iatrogenic PTB rates (1.7% in lockdown
versus 3.0% in no lockdown). All PTB miRNAs examined were expressed
significantly lower during lockdown compared to no lockdown (P<0.0001)
regardless of delivery outcome. Our leading PTB miRNA marker, miR150,
had the highest predictive ability for PTB (<34 weeks) (ROC AUC=0.67),
and this was further enhanced by excluding lockdown samples (ROC
AUC=0.72).
Conclusion: The UK COVID 19 lockdowns significantly affected the
levels of circulating miRNAs in maternal plasma, thus affecting their
predictive ability for subsequent pregnancy complications. This could
potentially be due to changes in air pollution, levels of physical activity
or psychological stress over the COVID 19 lockdowns. Future studies
involving analysis of miRNAs in samples collected over COVID should
take this into consideration.
T-052
Adverse Perinatal Outcomes in Discordant Preterm Prelabor
Membrane Rupture in Dichorionic versus Monochorionic Twins.
Chelsea Adwere-Boatemaa†, Phillip Strong, Herman Hedriana, Lihong
Mo. University of California Davis School of Medicine, Sacramento,
CA, United States.
Introduction: Preterm pre-labor rupture of membranes (PPROM) is
more prevalent in twin than singleton pregnancies. However, PPROM
management in monochorionic diamniotic (MCDA) twins does not reflect
the unique nature of sharing chorion compared to dichorionic diamniotic
(DCDA) twins. The objective of our study is to compare the incidence
of adverse perinatal outcomes between MCDA and DCDA twins after
PPROM, and those between the individual twins with ruptured membranes
and intact membranes within the same pregnancy.
Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study from a single tertiary center.
56 twin pregnancies were identified with the ICD10 code of PPROM
120A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
between 2013 to 2024 from the electronic medical records. Chart review
confirmed 15 monochorionic diamniotic and 41 dichorionic diamniotic
twin pregnancies. Categorical variables were compared using the Chisquared
test.
Results: There was no significant difference in the incidence of
gestational age (GA) at delivery < 28 weeks, GA at delivery < 34 weeks,
chorioamnionitis, and Cesarean delivery between MCDA and DCDA
twins. In MCDA twin pregnancies, there was no significant difference
in the incidence of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), sepsis,
hypoglycemia, hyperbilirubinemia requiring phototherapy, and NICU
admission between intact and ruptured twins. Both groups had an equal
median length of stay (LOS). Within DCDA pregnancies, there was no
significant difference in the incidence of RDS, sepsis, hypoglycemia,
hyperbilirubinemia requiring phototherapy, and NICU admission between
intact and ruptured twins. Both groups had an equal median LOS.
Conclusion: Despite increased risks with MCDA twins due to shared
placenta and vascular connections, there were no statistically significant
differences in adverse perinatal outcomes between the two groups.
Similarly, there were no significant differences in adverse perinatal
outcomes in twins with ruptured and intact membranes within the same
pregnancy. The study’s small sample size is a limitation, indicating the
need for further research to enhance clinical guidelines and outcomes in
twin pregnancies complicated by PPROM.
T-053
Risk Factor Assessment for Cesarean Scar Ectopic Pregnancies.
Asavari Rajpurkar†, AnneMarie Opipari, Catherine Gliwa, Patricia Greco∗.
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States.
Introduction: Cesarean scar ectopic pregnancy (CSEP) is a rare
complication in patients with a history of cesarean delivery (CD) that
carries significant risk of obstetric morbidity and mortality. Limited
understanding of disease pathogenesis and risk factors has impeded
clinicians’ ability to counsel on the risk of future CSEP development.
Our objective was to characterize patterns in our CSEP population that
could identify potential risk factors for CSEP.
Methods: We conducted a retrospective descriptive analysis on all
CSEP diagnosed by ultrasound between January 2018 and June 2023 at
a single tertiary care center. Patients were identified by ICD-10 codes
and confirmed through chart review. Quantitative analysis evaluated
indication for primary CD, timing and indication for last CD, hysterotomy
closure technique at last CD, number of previous CDs, history of uterine
procedures, preterm birth, and spontaneous abortions (SAB).
Results: 62 patients met the inclusion criteria for this study. The average
number of previous CDs was 2.19 (σ= 1.17, range 1-7). Of the 48 patients
with available data on primary CD indication, 68.8% were in active
labor. Labor arrest disorder (37.5%) was the most common indication for
primary CD, followed by non-reassuring fetal status (29.2%), and fetal
malpresentation (18.8%). Of the 49 patients with available data on last CD,
scheduled repeat CD (34.7%) was the most common indication, followed
by labor arrest disorder (16.3%), and fetal malpresentation (14.3%). 32.6%
had a preterm delivery during their last CD. The prevalence of other risk
factors was: previous uterine procedure (29.0%), prior preterm birth
(33.9%), and previous SAB (59.8%). Of the 34 patients with available
operative reports for the last CD, a majority (70.6%) underwent a twolayer
hysterotomy closure with (85.3%) 0-vicryl suture.
Conclusion: Labor arrest disorder and non-reassuring fetal status were
the most common indications for primary CD. There was also a high
prevalence of preterm birth and spontaneous abortion in this cohort. These
insights are hypothesis-generating and highlight the need for case-control
studies in larger cohorts to elucidate these patterns further.
T-054
Monocyte Distribution Width and Lactate Values in Antepartum
Patients with Preterm Premature Rupture of Membranes: A Pilot
Study. Avery Day†,1 Mason Sifford†,1 Marlena Ebbesmeyer†,1 Shreya
Katwala†,1 Jeffrey Kelleher,2 Nanette West,2 Devika Maulik∗,1 Julie A
Vircks∗.1 1University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Medicine, Kansas
City, MO, United States; 2University Health, Kansas City, MO, United
States.
Introduction: There is a high rate of intraamniotic infection in the setting
of preterm premature rupture of membranes. While many inflammatory
markers have been proposed to guide the clinician in this scenario, few
biomarkers have become clinically useful. The mainstay of surveillance
continues to be the use of the white blood cell count, which is often affected
by pregnancy physiology and the administration of steroid therapy. The
study’s primary aim was to describe lactate and monocyte distribution
width (MDW) values in patients admitted for preterm premature rupture
of membranes (PPROM).
Methods: Antepartum patients admitted for confirmed preterm premature
rupture of membranes were recruited from June 2023 to September 2024.
Serial vital signs, complete blood counts, lactate, and MDW values were
obtained during antenatal admissions. Placental pathology was also
collected. Pearson correlation coefficients were assessed for statistical
significance (p<0.05) and a multiple regression was performed.
Results: Eleven patients underwent serial laboratory collection, with 100
clinical and laboratory values analyzed. No subjects were diagnosed with
sepsis. Of the four subjects demonstrating placental chorioamnionitis, two
subjects had elevated MDW values and one subject had an elevated lactate
immediately prior to delivery. A multiple regression model demonstrated
a positive correlation between gestational age and serum lactate levels
(p=0.01). There was no statistically significant evidence that lactate and
MDW values were adversely affected by steroid administration.
Conclusion: The biomarkers MDW and lactate are potentially powerful
tools, unaffected by steroid administration, that could aid in the
identification of intraamniotic infection and the onset of labor. Further
evaluation of the biomarkers is required to understand the clinical utility
in patients with PPROM.
T-055
Anemia at Delivery and Maternal Race/Ethnicity Predict Neonatal
Hematologic Markers in an Urban Midwestern Medical Center.
Rebecca K Campbell, Nicole K. Tanna, Julie Hartwig, Catalin S Buhimschi,
Irina A Buhimschi. University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, United
States.
Introduction: It is well established that anemia that is not corrected in
pregnancy may adversely affect infant health. Estimates of the prevalence
of maternal prenatal anemia in the US vary widely, but often suggest
prevalence is especially high among Hispanic and non-Hispanic (NH)
Black women. The extent to which neonatal hematology is impacted
by maternal anemia is not well described. We aimed to (1) determine
the prevalence of anemia during pregnancy and at delivery in a diverse
university hospital patient population, and (2) investigate the association
between maternal and neonatal hematologic measures.
Methods: Pregnant people who received prenatal care at our institution
were enrolled prospectively in a repository of biological specimens and
data. Hemoglobin (Hb) and hematocrit (Hct) values were abstracted from
maternal and infant medical records. Any anemia in pregnancy and at
delivery (< 11 g/dL in trimesters 1 and 3; < 10.5 g/dL in trimester 2) and
neonatal Hb and hematocrit (Hct) were the primary outcomes. Risk factors
of interest were gestational age (GA) at birth, maternal race/ethnicity,
and mode of delivery. Twin pregnancies and neonates delivered before
26 weeks GA were excluded.
Results: Of n=228 participants, 68% identified as NH Black and 25% as
Hispanic; the remaining 8% were NH White or Asian. The prevalence
of anemia at any time in pregnancy was 54% and at delivery was 44%.
Prevalence of anemia differed by race during pregnancy (χ2 p-value 0.011),
with highest prevalence in non-Hispanic (NH) Black women and lowest
among Hispanic women. Differences by race did not reach statistical
significance at delivery, nor were differences in delivery anemia prevalence
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 121A
observed by GA or mode of delivery. Neonatal hematology was available
for 45% of newborns. Most neonates with hematology measured were born
preterm (69%) or early term (23%) or were born by C-section (60%), but
did not differ on maternal race or maternal prenatal or delivery anemia.
Neonatal Hb and Hct were highly correlated (rho=0.977) and were lower
by 1.7 g/dl (p=0.019 ) and 5.1 percentage points (p=0.016), respectively,
in infants of NH Black mothers compared to infants of Hispanic mothers.
Hb and Hct were lower in infants of mothers with anemia at delivery
(β=-0.99, F-test p=0.042 and β=-2.96, F-test p=0.037, respectively), but
did not differ by maternal anemia earlier in pregnancy, GA, or mode of
delivery. In multivariable models, NH Black race and delivery anemia
were independent predictors of lower neonatal Hb and Hct.
Conclusion: Prenatal and delivery anemia were highly prevalent in this
sample. Delivery but not prenatal anemia was associated with lower
neonatal Hb and Hct. NH Black pregnant persons and their newborns
were particularly affected. Future studies of how lower neonatal Hb and
Hct may affect short and long-term outcomes of newborns of NH Black
mothers are critically needed.
T-056
Risk Profiling of Pregnancies with Low-Lying Placenta Using U.S.
National Data. May Abiad†,1 Giulia Bonanni†,1 Ali Javinani†,1 Nikan
Zargarzadeh†,1 Kjersti Aagaard∗,1,2,3,4 Alireza Shamshirsaz∗.1 1Fetal Care
& Surgery Center, Boston Children’s Hospital, Boston, MA, United States;
2HCA Healthcare and HCA Healthcare Research Institute, Nashville,
TN, United States; 3HCA Texas Maternal Fetal Medicine, Houston, TX,
United States; 4Baylor College of Medicine and Texas Children’s Hospital,
Houston, TX, United States.
Introduction: This study aimed to assess the risk profile in patients with
low-lying placenta (LLP) compared to those with normal placentation.
Additionally, we aimed to identify the factors associated with hemorrhage
in patients with LLP.
Methods: We conducted a retrospective analysis using the 2017-2019
Nationwide Readmissions Database. Individuals with a diagnosis code
of LLP at the time of delivery were compared to those with normal
placentation. Patients with multifetal gestation, ectopic/molar pregnancies,
and other placental abnormalities were excluded. The Elixhauser (EH)
Comorbidity Index, identifying 38 pre-existing conditions, was utilized
to assess comorbidities. Hemorrhage was defined as the combination of
ante-, intra-, and post-partum hemorrhage. Baseline characteristics were
evaluated using chi-square tests for categorical variables and Wilcoxon
rank-sum tests for continuous variables. Multivariable logistic regression
was conducted to evaluate the odds ratios (OR) for hemorrhage in the
LLP group.
Results: Of the 5,620,368 deliveries included, 11,755 patients had LLP.
Patients with LLP were older, with a median age of 31 years compared to
29 years in patients with normal placentation (p < 0.001). The LLP group
was more likely to deliver in large, urban teaching hospitals (57.5% vs.
55.2%, p < 0.001). LLP patients had higher rates of previous cesarean
delivery (22.9% vs. 17.8%, p < 0.001) and placenta accreta spectrum
(1.3% vs. 0.1%, p < 0.001). Regression analysis showed increased odds
of hemorrhage in those with LLP and rural hospital delivery, multiple
EH comorbidities, placenta accreta spectrum, and early gestational age
at delivery. Conversely, pre-eclampsia and fetal growth restriction were
associated with reduced hemorrhage risk.
Conclusion: Pregnant patients with low-lying placenta have a distinct risk
profile characterized by the presence of multiple maternal comorbidities,
which, in turn, imparts a higher risk of hemorrhage. Our findings
emphasize the need for tailored management strategies to improve
outcomes for this group of patients.
T-057
The Impact of Operative Vaginal Delivery on Maternal Post-Traumatic
Stress in Patients with Pelvic Floor Injury. Dana Canfield†, Omar
Mesina†, Emmanuel Elijah†, Rachel Wiley†, Aava Saffarnia†, Alexandra
Nutaitis†, Lindsey Burnett∗. University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
CA, United States.
Introduction: While some studies indicate that operative vaginal delivery
(OVD) is associated with symptoms of post-traumatic stress, none have
specifically focused on a birth-injured population. Our goal was to
compare the Peritraumatic Distress Inventory (PDI) score in patients who
delivered via spontaneous vaginal delivery (SVD) to those delivered with
forceps or vacuum assistance (OVD).
Methods: This was a retrospective cohort study of 104 patients seen
in a urogynecology clinic specializing in the care of patients with birth
injury. All patients seen in clinic completed surveys which included the
PDI, a validated survey with Likert scale responses designed to assess for
childbirth-related post-traumatic symptoms. Demographic and delivery
variables, including age, BMI, race and ethnicity, parity, birthweight,
profession and subspecialty of delivering provider, and presence of
diabetes, hemorrhage, and shoulder dystocia, postpartum vaginal pain
and urinary, stool, and gas incontinence were compared between patients
with SVD versus OVD. Demographic and delivery factors identified by
the bivariate analysis with p<0.10 were included in a multivariable linear
regression model of PDI.
Results: 104 patients completed the PDI and were included in our analysis;
68 (65%) with SVD and 36 (35%) with OVD. PDI ranged from 0 to 47 with
an overall mean of 8.8. Mean PDI in the OVD group was 9.08 (SD 10.06)
compared to 8.49 (SD 10.27) in the SVD group. The groups experienced
similar degrees of laceration and perineal pain and only significantly
varied by provider type, which was expected given that certified nurse
midwives do not perform OVD at our institution. In the linear regression
model, adjusting for provider type, there was no significant difference in
PDI between groups (mean difference 0.1075; CI -4.18, 4.40, p = 0.96).
Conclusion: Operative delivery was not associated with a greater degree
of childbirth-related stress in a birth-injured population. While more data
are needed to assess the validity of our findings, physicians performing
OVD can be reassured that in this small dataset, this often necessary
intervention did not appear to cause significant psychological trauma.
T-058
Patterns of Substance Use in Pregnancy and Risk of Small for
Gestational Age at Birth. Bita Tristani-Firouzi†, Nathan Blue∗, Marcela
Smid, Taylor Lendrum, Lisa Pappas, Amanda Allshouse, Michelle Debbink,
Julie Shakib, Charron Betsy. University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, United
States.
Introduction: Substance use disorder (SUD), particularly polysubstance
use, is considered a risk factor for poor fetal growth, but it is unknown
whether there are specific patterns of substance use during pregnancy
that confer greater or lesser risk. Our objective was to identify patterns
of substance use during pregnancy and assess their association with small
for gestational age (SGA) at birth among participants with SUD.
Methods: Retrospective cohort analysis was conducted on the Maternal
and Infant Clinical Network from one study site of persons delivering
between August 2017 and October 2021. Inclusion criteria were SUD,
singleton pregnancy, and available ultrasound and birth data. Substances
and timing of use were ascertained from detailed SUD prenatal clinic
records. Latent class analysis (LCA) was utilized to determine patterns of
substance use in pregnancy via both the substances and timing of usage.
LCA-identified substance use patterns were tested for association with the
primary outcome of SGA (birth weight <10th percentile) and secondary
outcomes using chi-square.
Results: Among participants with SUD, 306 met inclusion criteria. LCA
parameterization was optimized with four classes, which were driven
by 5 substances: opioids, methamphetamines, marijuana, cocaine, and
benzodiazepines. Use timing was not informative for LCA-identified
patterns. The four LCA-identified patterns were: Class 1 (52% of cohort):
polysubstance use of methamphetamines (100% of Class 1), opioids
(91.7%), and cannabis (34.8%); Class 2 (19% of cohort): primarily
122A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
opioid use (100% of Class 2) with low frequency of cocaine (15.8%) and
benzodiazepines (10.5%); Class 3 (18% of cohort): no substance use; and
Class 4 (10.9% of cohort): polysubstance use of cannabis (86% of Class 4),
opioids (53.5%), and benzodiazepines (25.6%). SGA (23%) average birth
weight (2966 g (±SD 603), and preterm birth (24%) did not significantly
differ across patterns of substance use (p=0.8, p=0.3, p=0.5 respectively).
Conclusion: In a cohort of SUD in pregnancy, the overall rate of SGA was
high. LCA-identified patterns of use were characterized by opioids and
various combinations of polysubstances, particularly methamphetamine
and cannabis, and were not associated with SGA or birthweight. Based
on these data, screening protocols for poor fetal growth in SUD-affected
pregnancies should be driven by standard indications rather than by
specific patterns of use or non-use.
T-059
Critical Windows of Antenatal Poor Air Quality Exposure Associated
with Placental Insufficiency. Michelle P Debbink,1 Brenna C Kelly†,1
Michael W Varner∗,1 Heather A Holmes,1 Joel D Schwartz∗,2 Blair J
Wylie∗.3 1University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, United States; 2Harvard
University, Boston, MA, United States; 3Columbia University, New York
City, NY, United States.
Introduction: Poor air quality (AQ) exposures in pregnancy may
impact placental development. We aimed to assess associations between
geographically granular category pollutant exposures during each week
of pregnancy and the development of placental insufficiency.
Methods: Retrospective observational cohort study of singleton livebirths
>20 weeks gestational age (GA) in Utah, 2013-2016. Primary outcome
was placental insufficiency, defined by small for gestational age (SGA,
birthweight <10%ile) or hypertensive disorder of pregnancy. AQ was
assessed via previously published, satellite-based multi-input model.
Weekly mean (cumulative) and max (peak) particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5),
nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and ozone (O3) were included as co-primary
exposures. Maternal residential addresses were geocoded and matched
to AQ exposures on a 1km x 1km geographic grid. To target risks related
to placental development, exposures up to 25 weeks GA were included.
Distributed nonlinear lag models were used to evaluate associations
between cumulative and peak exposures of each pollutant independently
and all pollutants together during each week of pregnancy. Models of
multiple pollutants were adjusted for temperature.
Results: Of 51,822 included pregnancies, 17.2% (n=8,931) had placental
insufficiency. Compared to average peak PM2.5 (11.6 ug/m3), any peak
PM2.5 exposure of >70ug/m3 between 5-25 weeks GA was associated
with placental insufficiency, most pronounced at 12 weeks GA. Peak PM
2.5 of 200ug/m3 at 12 weeks GA was associated with 7.5% increased
odds (OR 1.08, 95% CI 1.02-1.11) of placental insufficiency. Compared
to average cumulative PM2.5 (7.7 ug/m3), cumulative PM 2.5 > 50ug/m3
was associated with increased placental insufficiency, most pronounced at
11 weeks GA (OR 1.04, 95% CI 1.02-1.06 at 100ug/m3 exposure). Neither
peak NO2 nor O3 exposures were associated with placental insufficiency.
Both cumulative NO2 and O3 were associated with small but significant
increases in placental insufficiency at similar critical GA (NO2 >100ug/
m3 at 18-22 wk GA, OR=1.02, 95%CI 1.01-1.03 and O3 > 90ppb at 17-19
wk GA, OR=1.025, 95%CI 1.004-1.05). Models including all pollutants
demonstrate that, in general, higher exposure to any one pollutant, holding
the others at their cumulative or peak average, has a more pronounced
relationship with placental insufficiency than any pollutant alone.
Conclusion: Among category pollutants, both peak and cumulative PM2.5
demonstrate a consistent association with placental insufficiency with the
highest impact at 11-12 weeks GA. Importantly, relationships shift when
all pollutants are included, indicating that mixtures of pollutants are likely
important in modeling relationships between AQ and pregnancy outcomes.
T-060
Association Between Maternal Body Mass Index, Skin Incision-to-
Delivery Time, and Umbilical Artery pH in Cesarean Deliveries.
Nadine Sunji†, Alyssa M Hernandez†, Rachel Schmidt, Amy Y Pan, Anna
Palatnik∗. Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, United States.
Introduction: The prevalence of obesity has increased substantially
among women of reproductive age in the United States over the past
two decades. Obesity increases the risk of adverse maternal outcomes,
such as cesarean delivery, and poor neonatal outcomes, such as low
umbilical artery (UA) pH. In cesarean deliveries, prolonged time from
skin incision to infant delivery also increases the risk of poor neonatal
outcomes. However, the relationship between maternal body mass index
(BMI) and incision-to-delivery time, and their joint association with
neonatal outcomes, remain understudied. This study aimed to determine
the association between maternal BMI at delivery, time from skin incision
to infant delivery, and UA pH <7.0.
Methods: This was a secondary analysis of the Assessment of Perinatal
Excellence multicenter obstetrical U.S. cohort of patients with live-born
singleton, nonanomalous gestations who delivered between 2008 and
2011. This analysis included patients who delivered via cesarean with
known BMI at delivery and available data on UA pH. Multivariable linear
regression assessed the association between time from skin incision to
infant delivery and BMI while multivariable logistic regression estimated
the independent association of time from skin incision to delivery with
UA pH <7.0. An interaction term of time from skin incision to delivery
and BMI categories was created to examine their combined effect on the
outcome of UA pH <7.0.
Results: A total of 16,723 patients were included across five BMI groups.
Increasing BMI was associated with longer time from skin incision to
delivery and higher rates of UA pH <7.0. After controlling for potentially
confounding factors, all BMI groups ≥25 kg/m² were associated with
longer time from skin incision to delivery. Specifically, BMI groups
of 40-49.9 kg/m² and ≥50 kg/m² had skin incision-to-delivery times
that were 1.30 (95% CI 1.23, 1.36) and 1.44 (95% CI 1.34, 1.55) times
longer, respectively, compared to BMI <25 kg/m². In a multivariable
logistic regression, BMI groups of 40-49.9 kg/m² and ≥50 kg/m² remained
associated with higher odds of UA pH <7.0 even with time from skin
incision to delivery entered into the equation as a covariate. There was
a significant interaction between BMI and time from skin incision to
delivery with regard to the risk of UA pH <7.0 (p for the interaction
term = .003).
Conclusion: Maternal BMI ≥40 kg/m² was associated with longer time
from skin incision to infant delivery and higher odds of UA pH <7.0.
T-061
A Geospatial Temporal Cluster of Stillbirths in Utah. Paulina M
Devlin,1 Rebecca Richards-Steed†,1 Michelle Debbink,1 Kennedy K
Yost†,1 Jessica Page,1 Robert M Silver,1 Naomi Riches,1 Susannah Leisher,1
Lauren Christiansen-Lindquist,2 Patrick Eucalitto,1 Nicola Camp,1 Myke
Madsen,1 Nathorn Chaiyakunapruk,1 Debbie Haine Vijayvergiya,1 Sarah
Lopez,1 Stacey Fletcher,1 Kathleen E Cohen,1 Tsegaselassie Workalemahu∗.1
1University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, United States; 2Emory University,
Georgia, GA, United States.
Introduction: Stillbirth is a devastating event with long-term social
and economic impact on affected families. The causes of stillbirth are
poorly understood and estimating risk and predicting stillbirth is elusive.
Environmental and social policy factors may contribute to the risk of
stillbirth. We aimed to identify clusters of stillbirths for future investigation
of potential environmental and social contributors to stillbirth risk.
Methods: We conducted a spatial and temporal analysis of stillbirths using
a retrospective case-control study design to identify potential stillbirth
clusters in Utah. The Utah Population Database statewide fetal death
and birth certificate data records dating between 1978 - 2017 were used
to identify stillbirth cases (fetal death at 20 weeks gestation or greater,
n=2136) and controls (live births with no history of pregnancy loss,
n=4009). Maternal residential locations at the time of pregnancy were used
to measure the clustering of cases and controls. Spatial autocorrelation
using Moran’s Index was computed to observe whether stillbirth cases
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 123A
were distributed among population densities. The relative risk (RR) and
95% confidence interval (CI) were estimated to identify regions and
periods of increased stillbirth risk. Monte Carlo simulation was used to
determine statistical significance, identifying likely clusters using the
likelihood ratio value from the actual data as compared to values from
simulated random datasets generated under the null hypothesis of no
spatial and temporal clustering.
Results: Demographic and medical characteristics were similar between
cases and controls. The Moran Index suggested a significant tendency for
cases and controls to be geographically correlated with all major cities
in Utah (Moran’s Index=0.04, P-value=1.0e-9), highlighting that our
study population is more spatially clustered than expected. Controlling
for spatial autocorrelation, we identified one significant stillbirth cluster
located in Salt Lake, Davis, and Weber counties, West of Interstate-15,
and extending westward, in an area that is classified as urban for land use
(RR=1.20, 95% CI: 1.14-1.26, P-value=1.1e-12). The cluster stretched
from 1998-2017 temporally.
Conclusion: We identified a spatial-temporal cluster of stillbirths in
an urban area in Utah starting in 1998 that extended to the end of our
data period. Further investigation into environmental and social factors
associated with this cluster may inform intervention efforts to prevent
stillbirth.
T-063
Population Trends in Maternity Risk, Care and Outcomes in the Pre
and Post Pandemic Eras. Stephanie Lynch,1 Tiffany Inglis,2 Courtney
Carmicheal-Swanner,3 Cynthia Brown,3 Eric Stanek∗.4 1Carelon Research,
Newton, MA, United States; 2Carelon, Indianapolis, IN, United States;
3Elevance Health, Indianapolis, IN, United States; 4Carelon Research,
Wilmington, DE, United States.
Introduction: There are few national data on the impact of the COVID-19
pandemic on trends in integrated maternal risk, prenatal care delivery,
and maternal and infant outcomes beyond 2020. We sought to provide
these data in a large US population over the early and mid-pandemic era
referent to the pre-pandemic era.
Methods: We studied integrated medical and pharmacy claims data from
658,538 mother-infant dyads enrolled in Elevance Health commercial
health plans with deliveries between Jan 2019 and Dec 2021. Variables
of interest included 3 categories: Maternal Risk (diagnoses of metabolic
disorders and behavioral health/substance use disorders), Prenatal Care
(medical claims for outpatient care; pharmacy claims for metabolic/
behavioral health disorder therapy) and Delivery Outcomes [Maternal:
severe maternal morbidity (SMM), C-section, and additional postpartum
morbidity; Infant: preterm birth, NICU admission, mortality, and
morbidity (respiratory, digestive, and allergic) through 1 year]. Relative
differences were calculated for each variable by comparing the absolute
rates in 2020 or 2021 to those in 2019, and differences >20% or 10-20%
were assessed as large or moderate, respectively.
Results: During the pandemic era, large increases (25-40%) were
observed in maternal depression, anxiety, phobia, and stress, along with
moderate increases in obesity, gestational diabetes, and hypertension,
including eclampsia/preeclampsia. Prenatal care delivery timing and
completeness measures remained stable during the pandemic era.
There was a large reduction in opioid use which may reflect ongoing
programmatic efforts to reduce SUD in pregnancy. Moderate increases
in the use of antidepressants, anxiolytics, and insulin were concordant
with maternal morbidities. Maternal outcomes including SMM were
stable, except for large increases in depression and post-partum onset
preeclampsia and a moderate decrease in primary C-section. Infant
outcomes also remained stable except for large bidirectional changes in
mortality, and large decreases in asthma and digestive system disorders,
all likely influenced by low absolute rates.
Conclusion: With some exceptions, notably for maternal risk variables
and associated drug therapy consistent with national trends, prenatal care
delivery, maternal outcomes, and infant outcomes remained stable during
the first 2 years of the pandemic era. This likely reflects the sum of efforts
by healthcare providers, healthcare systems, and payors to preserve the
continuity of maternal and infant care despite pandemic-related challenges.
Observed moderate-large shifts warrant ongoing monitoring and further
research regarding their root causes and longer-term impact.
T-064
Perinatal Outcomes Among Asian versus Non-Asian Patients with
Gestational Diabetes Mellitus. Candace Levian†, Mariam Naqvi,
Alexandra Navarrete, Mona Garcia, Tania F Esakoff∗. Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
Introduction: The prevalence of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is
higher in Asian populations, but it is unclear if Asian patients with GDM
have more adverse pregnancy outcomes compared to other groups with
GDM. Our objective was to compare perinatal outcomes between Asian
and non-Asian patients with GDM.
Methods: Retrospective cohort study of patients with GDM who delivered
at a single institution from 2020-2023. Race/ethnicity was self-reported.
Data were obtained through chart abstraction. Clinical characteristics
and pregnancy outcomes between Asian and non-Asian patients were
performed using χ2 and t-test. Multivariable logistic regression was then
performed to adjust for potential confounders.
Results: We identified 667 patients with GDM, of whom 274 (41%)
identified as Asian. Asian patients were older (36.4 vs 35.2 years, P <
0.01), less likely to be obese (14% vs 33%, P < 0.01), and were diagnosed
with GDM at an earlier gestational age (26.1 vs 26.9 weeks, P=0.02).
Asian patients were less likely to have an abnormal fasting value and more
likely to have an abnormal 3-hour value on glucose tolerance testing. Asian
patients were more likely to require rapid-acting insulin (8% vs 0.7%, P
< 0.01) and less likely to have polyhydramnios (3% vs 6%, P=0.04) and
postpartum hemorrhage (7% vs 11%, P=0.04). Large for gestational age
(LGA) and admission to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) were
less likely among the Asian cohort. After adjustment for age, body mass
index, parity, gestational age at delivery, and mode of delivery, Asian
race was significantly associated with requiring rapid-acting insulin (aOR
16.6, CI 1.8-156). The odds of an LGA neonate (aOR 0.4, CI 0.2-0.8)
and NICU admission (aOR 0.6, CI 0.4-0.9) remained less likely among
Asian patients after adjustment.
Conclusion: In patients with GDM, Asian race was associated with a
lower likelihood of NICU admission and LGA. While the prevalence of
GDM is higher in Asian patients, perinatal outcomes may be similar or
improved compared to non-Asian patients.
T-065
Association Between Urine Culture Testing during Pregnancy and
Maternal Attributes and Neonatal Outcomes. Chaarushi Ahuja,1 Lisbet
Lundsberg,2 Jennifer Culhane,2 Caitlin Partridge,2 Mert Bahtiyar,2 Katherine
Kohari∗.2 1Yale New Haven Health, New Haven, CT, United States; 2Yale
School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Urine culture (UC) is a commonly ordered test in
pregnancy. Little is known about the frequency of testing, attributes of
patients receiving UCs and association with adverse outcomes. We aimed
to understand test frequency and patient characteristics of those with UCs
conducted in non-ambulatory settings during pregnancy.
Methods: This is a retrospective study of pregnant patients in our hospital
system (2013-2022). We compared pregnant patients with UC performed
in 22 non-ambulatory settings to those without any UC. For those with
UC, number of tests was identified and patients categorized as receiving
1, 2-3 or 4+ UC. Maternal attributes and pregnancy outcomes of age,
insurance, race, parity, language, BMI, smoking, chronic hypertension
(CHTN), hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP), gestational diabetes
(GDM), pregestational diabetes, small for gestational age (SGA), cesarean
delivery, neonatal intensive care unit admission (NICU) and preterm
birth (PTB) were compared between patients with and without UC using
chi-square or ANOVA. The analyses were repeated by number of tests
for patients with UC.
Results: Of 110,679 records, 19,698 (17.8%) patients ≥1 UC. Of these,
14,035 (71.3%), 4809 (24.4%), and 854 (4.3%) had 1, 2-3, or 4+ UCs
respectively. The range of tests was 1-14. Compared to patients with no
UC, those with UC were significantly more likely to be <35 (79.8 vs
124A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
70.1%, p<0.0001), have public insurance (60.4 vs 30.8%, p<0.0001), be
black (25.0 vs 12.2%, p<0.0001) or Hispanic (34.6 vs 20.1%, p<0.0001),
multiparous (59.7 vs 56.5% , p<0.0001), non-English speaking (13.4 vs
10.2%, p<0.0001), obese (60.6 vs 54.4%, p<0.0001) and smoke (11.7
vs 4.5%, p<0.0001). Patients with ≥1 UC were also significantly more
likely to have CHTN (10.6 vs 5.8%, p<0.0001), HDP (22.2 vs 14.6%,
p<0.0001), GDM (12.0 vs 9.3%, p<0.0001), pregestational diabetes (5.8
vs 2.4%, p<0.0001), cesarean section (36.5 vs 33.8, p<0.0001), PTB
(20.9 vs 6.7%, p<0.0001), NICU admission (27.1 vs 14.6%, p<0.0001),
and SGA neonates (11.6 vs 9.3%, p<0.0001). Comparisons by frequency
showed that patients with more UCs were more likely to be < 35, have
public insurance, black or Hispanic, multiparous, obese, smoke and have
cHTN, HDP, and GDM.
Conclusion: Patients with UC had significant sociodemographic and
clinical differences compared to those without. The differences were
further noted in a stepwise fashion with multiple UCs. The results may
indicate bias in testing or UC as proxy for a vulnerable pregnant population
accessing care in non-ambulatory settings
T-066
Selective Fetal Growth Restriction: Morbidity and Mortality Following
Intensive Surveillance for Discordant Co-Twins. Allan Barraza†,
Nicholas Behrendt, Henry L Galan, Regina Reynolds, Zhaoxing Pan,
Michael Zaretsky. University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, United States.
Introduction: Selective fetal growth restriction (sFGR) affects 10-15
% of monochorionic twin pregnancies and is associated with significant
perinatal morbidity and mortality. We sought to compare neonatal
outcomes between discordant twin pairs.
Methods: We conducted a retrospective review of monochorionic twin
pregnancies with sFGR that underwent inpatient surveillance and delivery
at a tertiary fetal care center between July 2018 and November 2022.
Surveillance included Doppler studies weekly for Type I sFGR, twice
weekly for Types II & III. After viability, inpatient surveillance with
non-stress tests three times per day and twice weekly Doppler studies
were performed for types II & III. Cases were excluded for outside
center delivery, twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS), twin anemia
polycythemia sequence (TAPS), fetal anomalies, and fetal demise.
Neonatal data was compared using Wilcoxon signed rank and McNemar
tests and analyzed further by type of sFGR.
Results: Of 158 twin pairs, 120 were excluded. Spontaneous demise
occurred in 4 pairs (2.5%). Of 38 twin pairs with sFGR, there were 9
Type I, 22 Type II, and 7 Type III. The mean gestational age at delivery
was 31 6/7 weeks with a mean antepartum stay of 31 days. Compared
to the AGA twin, sFGR twins had a higher incidence of retinopathy of
prematurity (ROP), lower 1-minute APGAR, lower arterial cord pH and no
difference in 5-minute APGAR, need for mechanical ventilation, duration
of hypoglycemia, length of NICU stay, incidence of cholestasis or seizures.
Compared to Types II and III, Type I twins were delivered 25 days later
(mean 34 4/7 weeks), had higher birth weight, 1-minute APGAR, and a
shorter NICU stay. Types II &III had similar neonatal outcomes.
Conclusion: Other than lower birth weight and ROP in sFGR twins, no
significant differences in neonatal outcomes were seen between discordant
twins of all types. Type I twins delivered later resulting in improved
outcomes compared to Types II and III. These findings demonstrate that
close surveillance and neonatal care can results in good outcome for
selective fetal growth restriction.
T-067
Excessive Hypercholesterolemia in Pregnancy Reduces Cardiac
Tolerance to Ischemia/Reperfusion Insult in the Male Adult Offspring
Only. Murilo E. Graton†, Raven Kirschenman, Floor Spaans, Amanda A.
de Oliveira†, Christy-Lynn M. Cooke, Sandra T. Davidge∗. University of
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
Introduction: Preeclampsia, a common pregnancy complication, has been
associated with impaired cardiac function and coronary artery disease
in the adult offspring. Hypercholesterolemia (HC) is a significant risk
factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, during pregnancy,
HC is required for normal fetal development. In contrast, excessive HC
in pregnancy is associated with the development of preeclampsia, but the
impact of excessive pregnancy-specific HC on offspring cardiovascular
function is not known. We hypothesized that exposure to excessive HC
in pregnancy impairs cardiac and vascular function in the adult offspring.
Methods: Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a control diet (CD) or a
high cholesterol diet (HCD) only from gestational day (GD) 6 to 20
(term=GD22). Male and female offspring were aged to 4 months
(adulthood). In isolated hearts, the cardiac susceptibility to ischemia/
reperfusion insult (I/R; 20 min ischemia/ 40 min reperfusion) was assessed
ex vivo using the isolated working heart technique. Percent cardiac
recovery compared to baseline was calculated. In addition, cardiac left
ascending coronary arteries were isolated, and endothelium-dependent
vasodilation responses to methylcholine (MCh) and vasoconstrictor
capacity to a thromboxane A2 agonist (U46619) were assessed by wire
myography. Vascular function data were summarized as area under the
curve (arbitrary units; a.u.). Male and female data (means±SEM) were
analyzed separately by unpaired Student’s t-test; p≤0.05 was considered
significant; n=3-10/group.
Results: In the adult male offspring, HCD in pregnancy decreased the
cardiac recovery from I/R compared to CD offspring (CD: 21.5±7.3 vs
HCD: 4.3±1.3%; p=0.05). Moreover, coronary artery responsiveness
to MCh was reduced in HCD compared to CD males (CD: 382.2±10.3
vs 333.2±10.0 a.u.; p=0.005), without changes in vasoconstriction to
U46619. In contrast, in the adult female offspring, exposure to HCD in
pregnancy did not impact the cardiac recovery from I/R, or vasorelaxation
or vasoconstriction responses in coronary arteries, compared to control
females.
Conclusion: In the male offspring, exposure to excessive maternal HC
in pregnancy reduced the cardiac capacity to recovery from I/R insult,
which may be, in part, mediated via the impaired endothelium-dependent
vasodilation in the coronary arteries. In contrast, in the female offspring,
exposure to HC in pregnancy did not impact cardiac or coronary artery
function. It has been estimated that >25% of women develop excessive
HC in pregnancy, yet there is a paucity of data on the impact on offspring
health. These results expand our knowledge of the sex-specific differences
in an understudied susceptible population of children at risk of laterlife
CVD, allowing for an opportunity to diagnose and develop early
intervention strategies.
T-068
Non-Concordant Markers of Premature Aging in Cord Blood
Epigenomic Profiles from Fetal Growth Restricted and Low-Birth
Weight Neonates. Carrasco Matias†, Rodriguez J Erika, Villegas P
Catalina, Perez I Catalina, Thomas E Fabiola, Aguayo F Maria, Krause J
Bernardo∗. Universidad de O’Higgins, Rancagua, Chile.
Introduction: Impaired fetal growth is associated with an increased risk
of chronic diseases later in life, potentially driven by accelerated aging.
In this context, epigenetic clocks are currently considered molecular
markers that distinguish between chronological and biological age in
adults. However, whether their use in fetal and neonatal tissues can
identify signs of premature aging due to impaired fetal growth remains
unclear. In this study, we compare DNA methylation age (DNAmAge)
derived from widely used epigenetic clocks in low birth weight (LBW)
and fetal growth-restricted (FGR) neonates relative to control subjects.
Methods: Epigenetic profiling data from human cord blood samples
available in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were obtained.
The search criteria considered the use of Illumina bead chip analysis
platforms (i.e., 450K and EPIC arrays) and the availability of clinically
relevant data to define low birth weight and fetal growth restriction. These
search parameters resulted in three datasets, from which 426 samples met
the inclusion criteria for LBW/FGR and control groups. DNAmAge was
compared using the PhenoAge, GrimmAge, and Horvath clocks.
Results: Of the total samples analyzed, 22% were processed using the
450K array, and 11% were categorized as LBW/FGR. No differences
were observed when comparing DNAmAge between array types (i.e.,
450K vs. EPIC). However, a lower DNAmAge was observed using the
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 125A
Horvath (p < 0.0001) and GrimmAge (p = 0.002) clocks in LBW/FGR
subjects compared to controls. Conversely, a higher epigenetic age was
found in LBW/FGR subjects using the PhenoAge clock (p = 0.0001).
Conclusion: The discrepancies between the epigenetic clocks in
predicting chronological and biological ages suggest that impaired fetal
growth results in a younger epigenomic profile but does not reveal clear
early methylation markers for later chronic diseases.
Acknowledgments: FONDECYT 1220421
T-069
Obstetric Outcomes in Women with Heart Disease in Pregnancy: Data
from ROPAC. Gurleen Wander†,1 Anneroos van der Zande†,2 Jolien
W. Roos-Hesselink∗,2 Mark R. Johnson∗.1 1Imperial College, London,
United Kingdom; 2Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam,
Rotterdam, Netherlands.
Introduction: Women with heart disease have worse pregnancy outcomes.
We use multivariate analysis to investigate the factors related to emergency
Caesarean section (emCS) and birth weight (BW) centile.
Methods: Registry Of Pregnancy And Cardiac disease (ROPAC) is a
prospective, observational registry for women with heart disease (n=5739)
across 138 centres in 53 countries.
Results: Rates of preterm birth (PTB) 15.7%, intrauterine growth
restriction (IUGR) 4.4% (10.5% in ischemic heart disease [IHD]),
hypertensive disorders 4.5%, (13.3% in pulmonary artery hypertension
[PAH]), stillbirth 1.3% (4.4% PAH), CS rate 49.7% (80% in PAH), emCS
13.3% (31.5% in Fontan), 10.2% small for gestational age (SGA) and
congenital heart disease (CHD) 3% were observed. Nulliparity, maternal
age, pre-eclampsia, cardiomyopathy (CMP) and complex CHD increased
the risk of emCS. BW was positively related to maternal height, BMI,
male sex, gestational age but not parity; and negatively related to multiple
pregnancy, beta blockers, prophylactic anticoagulation, left ventricular
dysfunction, cyanosis, complex CHD, valvular heart disease (VHD),
IHD, CMP, PAH and pre-eclampsia. After correcting for gestational age
and sex, BW centile was significantly reduced in all diagnosis groups
except aortopathy. Median BW centile: <20 in Eisenmenger’s, pulmonary
atresia and double outlet right ventricle, similar at around 40 in corrected
and uncorrected ASD, higher in corrected vs uncorrected VSD (42 vs
24.8 centile; p<0.001), reduced in all forms of CMP (20-35th centile;
p<0.001), reduced in all forms of VHD (15-44th centile; p<0.001), except
aortic stenosis (47th centile). For VHD, the effect was greatest in mitral
stenosis (20th centile) and regurgitant lesions (30th centile). However,
degree of stenosis was not related to BW centile. Occurrence of SGA/
IUGR was associated with significantly higher pre-eclampsia (6.3% vs
2.6%; p<0.001), PTB (38.8% vs 12.7%; p<0.001), CS rate (65.7% vs
47.6%; p<0.001), neonatal mortality (2.2% vs 0.4%; p<0.001), heart
failure (20.3% vs 10.3%; p<0.001) and supraventricular arrhythmias
(3.2% vs 1.5%; p<0.001).
Conclusion: As well as the usual obstetric factors, CMP and complex
CHD were associated with higher rates of emCS. All forms of heart disease
were associated with reduced BW, meaning all women with heart disease
should have fetal growth monitored.
T-070
Association of Supraventricular Tachycardia in Pregnancy with
Elevated Risk of Maternal Cardiovascular Complications. Renata
Mukai†,1 Michael G Earing,2 Calla Holmgren,3 Stephanie Schreiber†,4
Riya Pathare†,5 Suwan Mehra,3 Rachel Harrison∗.3 1University of Illinois
at Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States; 2University of Chicago, Chicago,
IL, United States; 3Advocate Christ Medical Center, Oak Lawn, IL, United
States; 4Ascension Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hoffman Estates, IL, United
States; 5Midwestern University, Downers Grove, IL, United States.
Introduction: Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is a common maternal
arrhythmia, with increasing incidence during pregnancy and postpartum.
Maternal arrhythmias are associated with adverse fetal outcomes and
maternal mortality. We hypothesized that SVT in pregnancy would be
associated with increased maternal morbidity, including cardiovascular
complications (CVC) such as myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema,
cardiac arrest, hemorrhagic stroke, and need for cardioversion or other
cardiac procedure.
Methods: We analyzed female subjects from the National Inpatient
Sample database between 2017-2021 who were pregnant or within
six weeks postpartum (ages 11-50, n=3,919,693). Subjects with
ICD-10 diagnosis of SVT (n=5,221) were compared to those without
(n=3,914,472). SVT prevalence during the 5-year study period was
then evaluated and compared stratifying for demographic factors (race,
insurance type, hospital type) and preexisting conditions (obesity, chronic
hypertension, diabetes, and tobacco use). Baseline characteristics were
compared between groups using Student t-tests; Chi2 analysis and a
logistic regression was utilized to assess the impact of different risk factors
for SVT. Confounders noted to differ significantly between groups were
incorporated into the logistic regression.
Results: SVT incidence in pregnancy rose from 0.11% to 0.16% between
2017-2021 (p<0.001). Higher SVT rates were seen in subjects identified
as non-Hispanic Black, non-Hispanic White, with private insurance, and
in urban teaching hospitals (p<0.001). Lower rates occurred in individuals
identified as Hispanic, Asian, Native American, or Other; those with
Medicaid; and those at urban nonteaching or rural hospitals (p<0.001). No
significant association was found between SVT and household income or
gestational diabetes. Obesity (aOR 1.42, p<0.001), chronic hypertension
(aOR 2.53, p<0.001), diabetes (aOR 1.53, p<0.001), and tobacco use
(aOR 1.03, p=0.003) were associated with higher risk of SVT. Increased
risk of all CVC were found in subjects with SVT, including myocardial
infarction (OR 1.46 vs 0.03, p<0.001) pulmonary edema (OR 3.98 vs 0.18,
p<0.001), cardiac arrest (OR 0.73 vs 0.02, p<0.001), hemorrhagic stroke
(OR 0.21 vs 0.02, p<0.001), cardioversion (2.48 vs 0.02, p<0.001), and
other cardiac procedure (0.40 vs <0.01, p<0.001).
Conclusion: SVT incidence during pregnancy is rising, especially in
those with cardiometabolic risk factors. SVT in pregnancy is associated
with higher risk of maternal CVC.
T-071
Novel Mouse Model to Study the Long-Term Cardiovascular Outcomes
in Offspring After Prenatal Inflammation. Meera Rath, Sureshkumar
Mulampurath Achuthan Pillai, Ashlie-Chellsie Aminkeng, Kaitlin D.
Kersh, Egle Bytautiene Prewit∗. UT Health San Antonio, San Antonio,
TX, United States.
Introduction: The driver behind preterm birth is exaggerated prenatal
inflammation. Epidemiological evidence suggests that preterm birth may
predispose mothers and offspring to a range of adverse health conditions,
including cardiovascular disease, metabolic disorders, and psychological
sequelae. While some consequences of prenatal inflammation have been
extensively studied, the long-term cardiovascular offspring outcomes
remain under-explored. This study aimed to develop a mouse model to
study the long-term cardiovascular outcomes in offspring exposure to
prenatal inflammation.
Methods: On day 15 of gestation, pregnant CD-1 mice were randomized
to receive intraperitoneal (IP) injections of either lipopolysaccharide (50
micrograms, LPS) or saline 2 hours before administering a second saline
injection (SAL). Blood samples in pregnant females were collected hourly
post-injection to measure IL-6 concentrations and allowed to be delivered.
Blood pressure (BP) in offspring was measured 6-8 months after delivery
using the tail-cuff method, and the tissues were collected. Protein was
extracted from the brain cortex to measure cytokines utilizing the xMAP
Luminex assay. The C-reactive protein (CRP) was measured in serum.
RT-qPCR in the aorta determined gene expression of IL-6, NOS3, NFkB,
AT-1, and p53. Results were analyzed using the student t-test or Mann-
Whitney test (P<0.05).
Results: The IL-6 levels in pregnant females were significantly higher in
LPS mice than in SAL females, confirming the presence of inflammation
during pregnancy. At 6-8 months of age, systolic BP (P=0.043) and
diastolic BP (P=0.047) were significantly higher in the LPS group. The two
offspring groups were not different in total body, isolated heart, and brain
weights. Isolated visceral adipose tissue weight was significantly higher
in the LPS group (P=0.036). CRP levels (P=0.041) were substantially
126A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
higher in the LPS group. In the cortex, IL-1β was significantly higher, and
IL-4 and IL-10 were significantly lower in offspring exposed to LPS. The
p53 gene expression was significantly lower in the LPS group, indicating
less protection from inflammation in the aorta in the LPS group. No other
differences between the groups were determined.
Conclusion: Prenatal exposure to LPS significantly increased blood
pressure, increased pro-inflammatory cytokines in offspring, and
decreased anti-inflammatory cytokines in offspring later in life, suggesting
the development of chronic inflammation. We are reporting a novel model
to study the long-term outcomes in offspring after prenatal explanation.
The mechanisms behind these findings need further exploration.
T-072
Sexual Dimorphism in the Fetal Growth Response to Maternal
Cigarette Smoking. Ira Mark Bernstein∗, Stephen Higgins, Sarah Heil,
Joan Skelly. University of Vermont College of Medicine, Burlington, VT,
United States.
Introduction: Maternal cigarette smoking during pregnancy has been
unequivocally linked to adverse perinatal outcomes including fetal growth
restriction and is the largest source of preventable perinatal morbidity and
mortality for infants of smoking mothers. We examined the sex specific
fetal growth effect of maternal smoking in a large cohort of smoking
mothers who participated in a series of randomized prospective trials
examining the effect of incentive-based rewards to facilitate smoking
abstinence during pregnancy.
Methods: Four hundred and thirty two mother/newborn pairs contributed
to this analysis. Mothers were 24.7 + 5.2 (mean + s.d.) years of age at
the time of conception and predominantly Caucasian (93%). Average
prepregnancy BMI was 27.3 + 7.4. Mean prepregnancy cigarette
consumption was 19.3 + 9.2 cigs per day. We obtained birth weights
and gestational age assessments from the medical record and calculated
sex specific birth weight percentiles using the INTERGROWTH
21 nomograms. P < 0.05 was accepted for significance. Significant
independent variables in the prediction of sex specific birth weight
percentile via stepwise analysis included the specific study of enrollment,
maternal BMI, parity, maternal smoking status and newborn sex. Smoking
status was confirmed by biochemical analysis.
Results: We found no difference in third trimester smoking volume
comparing mothers of female versus male offspring (female: 7.8 + 6.5,
male: 7.7 + 6.7 mean cigs day). Maternal BMI (P < 0.001), smoking
abstinence (P=0.0003), primiparity (P=0.0135) and newborn sex
(P=0.006) all contributed independently to sex specific birth weight
percentile. Male infants birth weight percentiles were approximately 8
percentage points higher than female infants (P=0.004).
Conclusion: In this analysis of offspring of smoking mothers, with
biochemical verification of maternal smoking status, female infants were
disproportionately disadvantaged relative to male infants with a greater
reduction in birth weight with similar exposures. These findings may
contribute to a disproportionate risk for the development origin of adult
disease in female infants of smoking mothers.
T-073
Postpartum Maternal Hair Cortisol Concentrations Do Not Correlate
with Infant Hair Cortisol in Vervet Monkeys. Emma Ann Johnson†.
Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, United
States.
Introduction: Cortisol is a steroid hormone produced by the adrenal
glands that plays a crucial role in regulating various bodily functions,
including metabolism, immune response, and the body’s stress response.
Cortisol levels rise significantly during pregnancy, particularly in the
third trimester, due to increased production by the maternal and placental
systems. While essential for fetal development, excessive cortisol levels
can negatively affect fetal growth and increase the risk of complications
like preterm birth. This study aimed to investigate the relationship
between maternal and infant hair cortisol levels, as well as the relationship
between cortisol levels and birth weight (BW) in a translationally relevant
nonhuman primate pregnancy model (vervet monkey, Chlorocebus
aethiops sabaeus). We hypothesized that a positive correlation would be
present between maternal and infant cortisol, and that maternal cortisol
concentrations would negatively correlate with infant BW.
Methods: We collected at least 10 grams of hair from the thorax region
of both mother and infant within 5 days of birth (n=17 pairs). We
washed hair and extracted cortisol according to published protocols,
then measured concentrations using the Salimetrics Salivary Cortisol
ELISA Kit according to manufacturer instructions, with a 4-parameter fit
standard curve. We used non-parametric Spearman correlation analysis
to investigate the relationship between maternal and infant hair cortisol
concentrations, between maternal cortisol and infant BW, and between
infant cortisol and BW.
Results: Mean postpartum maternal hair cortisol concentration was
79.2 ± 15.5 pg/mg, while mean infant cortisol was 132.7 ± 32.5 pg/
mg (p=0.433 using Mann Whitney U test). There was no correlation
between maternal and infant hair cortisol concentrations at birth (r=0.123;
p=0.639). Additionally, there was no correlation between infant cortisol
concentrations and BW (r=-0.302; p=0.239). However, there was a trend
toward a positive correlation between maternal cortisol concentrations
and infant BW (r=0.480; p=0.0503).
Conclusion: Maternal and infant hair cortisol concentrations are not
correlated in this cohort of nonhuman primates, suggesting that infant
cortisol is independently regulated from the mother. In contrast to our
expected results, maternal cortisol may be positively correlated with
infant BW, but additional maternal-infant dyads are needed. Future studies
will investigate the relationship between maternal and infant cortisol
concentrations and additional infant anthropomorphic measures, postnatal
growth, and survival outcomes.
T-074
Chronic Prenatal Delta-9-Tetrahydrocannabinol Exposure Alters the
Placental and Infant Brain Epigenome. Olivia L Hagen,1 Lyndsey E
Shorey-Kendrick,1 Rahul J D’Mello,2,1 Elinor L Sullivan,2,1 Jamie O Lo∗.2,1
1Oregon National Primate Research Center, Beaverton, OR, United States;
2Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, United States.
Introduction: Prenatal cannabis use has doubled over the past decade.
Emerging evidence suggests that it is associated with an increased risk
of offspring neurobehavioral morbidity, but the underlying etiology is
unknown. Our group previously demonstrated in rhesus macaques (RM)
that prenatal THC (main psychoactive component of cannabis) exposure
results in placental dysfunction and altered fetal neurodevelopment, in
line with the placenta-brain-axis hypothesis. The molecular mechanisms
underlying these effects are unclear, but neurodevelopmental phenotypes
have been linked to environmental exposures through changes to DNA
methylation, and THC acts on the endocannabinoid system in part through
epigenetic modifications. Thus, the objective of this study was to assess
the effects of prenatal THC exposure on the placental and infant brain
DNA methylomes in a RM model.
Methods: Whole genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) was performed on
placental DNA and 6-month-old infant brain (cerebellum and prefrontal
cortex - PFC) DNA from control (n=4) and THC-exposed (n=4) rhesus
macaque pregnancies. Prior to conception and throughout pregnancy until
delivery, THC-exposed females received a daily THC edible (2.5mg/7kg,
equivalent to a heavy human medical cannabis dose). WGBS analysis
included QA/QC assessments, alignment to the rhesus reference genome,
identification of differentially methylated regions (DMRs) and the genes
annotated to these DMRs, and identification of enriched Gene Ontology
(GO) terms.
Results: We identified 5,400 placental DMRs, 1,867 cerebellar DMRs,
and 2,109 PFC DMRs between THC and control groups. Placental DMRs
were highly enriched for genes related to neurodevelopment (e.g., AUTS2).
Cerebellum and PFC shared 338 DMR genes, including 65 DMRs that
were highly conserved. The majority of DMRs in brain from infants
exposed prenatally to THC also correlated with expression of genes related
to neurodevelopment (e.g., OTX2, TLX3, NTF3, NR2F1).
Conclusion: In our rhesus macaque model, prenatal THC exposure is
associated with altered placental and offspring brain DNA methylation,
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 127A
enriched for neurodevelopment genes. This supports the potential role of
the placenta and epigenetic changes in linking prenatal THC exposure
and offspring neurobehavioral morbidity.
T-075
Furin as a Potential Placental Marker of Schizophrenia in THCExposed
Offspring. Andrea Maria Kocsis†,1 Enzo Perez Valenzuela,1
Steven R Laviolette,1 David R Natale,2 Daniel B Hardy.1 1Western
University, London, ON, Canada; 2Queen’s University, Kingston, ON,
Canada.
Introduction: Depending on the mode of detection, the prevalence of
cannabis use in pregnancy has an estimated range from 2%-36%. This
is of great concern considering that tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the
psychoactive component of cannabis, has been demonstrated to lead
to fetal growth restriction (FGR), and increased risk of psychosis in
offspring. Preclinical studies from our lab group indicate that rat offspring
exposed to THC during pregnancy exhibit schizophrenic-like behaviour,
(i.e., decreased pre-pulse inhibition) by postnatal day (PND)70. Recent
genome-wide association studies indicate a link between pregnancy
complications (i.e. FGR), and increased risk of schizophrenia (SCZ) via
differential expression of ~30 genes in the placenta. Despite the potential
high use of THC during pregnancy, it is still uncertain if THC increases
the risk of SCZ in postnatal life via differential expression of prioritized
placental genes. Therefore, we hypothesize that these placental markers
of schizophrenia are also altered in prenatal THC-exposed placentae.
Methods: Pregnant rat dams received edible THC (5 mg/kg)/Nutella
or Vehicle/Nutella daily from gestational day (GD)7. Two cohorts of
animals were used, one being sacrificed on GD19 for placentae, and the
other for the collection of brain at PND70. Tissue RNA was isolated and
prepared for qPCR analysis. To investigate acute THC exposure in the
human placenta and developing brain, (1) BeWo trophoblastic placental
cells and (2) patient-derived cerebral organoids were grown and treated
with vehicle or THC followed by qPCR analysis.
Results: Male and female offspring exposed to THC had statistically
significantly (p<0.05) lower birthweights with no significant change
in maternal measures. Of the top human differentially expressed
schizophrenic placental markers, the steady-state mRNA levels of Furin
(involved in protein regulation) and Rccd1 (involved in chromatin
reorganization) were significantly increased in both sexes in the rat
placenta (GD19) and PND70 brain after THC exposure. Furthermore, the
steady-state mRNA levels of other schizophrenic-associated genes (i.e.,
Atp5MK, Iqgap1 and Rccd1) were also increased in a sex-specific manner
in vivo. In BeWo cells, THC up-regulated Furin and Iqgap1 mRNA, while
only Furin was increased by THC in patient-derived cerebral organoids.
Conclusion: These findings suggest that prenatal THC exposure can
induce a signature of genes in the placentae associated with SCZ.
Moreover, Furin is a promising marker as it was altered in multiple models
of THC exposure. Collectively, this raises the exciting possibility that the
risk of SCZ could be detected early in life for those children, who without
choice, were exposed to cannabis in utero.
T-076
Trends in Sexual Orientation by Birth Year in the Apple Women’s
Health Study: A Descriptive Analysis. Paola Bojorquez-Ramirez†,
Gowtham Asokan†, Elizabeth Peebles†, Zifan Wang†, Erin Dracup†,
Jukka-Pekka Onnela, Michelle Williams, Russ Hauser, Brent Coull, Shruthi
Mahalingaiah∗. Harvard T.H Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA,
United States.
Introduction: Prior studies have found differences in self-reported sexual
orientations (SO) among females by birth cohort. Recent data from a
nationally representative landline and cellphone survey found that nearly
3 in 10 Gen Z women (28.5%) identify as LGBTQ+. Despite a growth
in interest in understanding the health implications associated with SO,
studies on population-level reporting of SO among underrepresented
groups across time by age remain scarce. The objective of this study was
to understand the distribution of SO across time by birth year in the Apple
Women’s Health Study (AWHS).
Methods: The AWHS is a US-based mobile-application-based longitudinal
cohort. This descriptive analysis included 81,268 participants in the AWHS
who 1) met AWHS’s eligibility criteria and signed informed consent,
2) were born between 1950 and 2005, 3) answered the demographic
questions, including the SO question between November 14, 2019 and
June 10, 2024, and 4) reported their sex at birth as female. Participants
were asked to select all that apply for the following SO: straight/
heterosexual, bisexual, lesbian, asexual, another sexual orientation, gay,
or prefer not to answer. Proportions of participants by SO options were
assessed by birth year.
Results: The mean age at enrollment was 31.2 years, over 50% had a
college education or above, 71.8% were White and Non-Hispanic, 69.6%
identified as only being straight/heterosexual, 4.3% selected more than
one SO response, and 1.4% selected ‘prefer not to answer.’ There was an
increase in multiple SO responses per individual by increasing birth year
(5% in 1960 vs 12% in 2000). The proportion of participants born between
1950-59 that identified as being straight/heterosexual was 88.0% and this
decreased over time as follows: 1960-69 (85.0%), 1970-79 (81.8%), 1980-
89 (74.3%), 1990-99 (63.2%), and 2000-05 (50.5%). The proportion of
participants born between 1950-59 that identified as bisexual was 3.3%
and this increased over time as follows: 1960-69 (6.1%), 1970-79 (10.4%),
1980-89 (16.3%), 1990-99 (25.0%), and 2000-05 (32.9%). Contrastingly,
the percentage of participants that selected any of the remainder SO
responses remained below 5% across all birth years included.
Conclusion: Our findings suggest possible increases in identifying with
multiple SO and self-reported bisexual orientations across advancing
birth years. These findings may reflect the role of time-specific social
generational characteristics. Additional investigation of sexual fluidity
by birth year, as well as changes in SO within an individual’s life-course
are important to understand. Further research is needed in population
representative cohorts to confirm these findings and to understand the
implications of sexual identity on health outcomes.
T-077
In Utero Gene Editing for Sickle Cell Disease. Alexandros Abdel
Massih†,1 Lisa Joy Kaiser†,1 Sara El Hoss∗,2 Giulia Hardouin†,2 María
Teresa Martín Monreal†,1 Michael Rooney†,1 Joanna Jacków∗,1 John
Strouboulis∗,1 Kypros Nicolaides∗,1 Tautvydas Kervelis∗,1 Giedrius
Gasiunas∗,3 Virginijus Šikšnys∗,3 Annarita Miccio∗,2 Panicos Shangaris∗.1
1King’s College London, London, United Kingdom; 2Institut Imagine,
Paris, France; 3Vilnius University, Vilnius, Lithuania.
Introduction: Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) is a recessive monogenic
disorder caused by a single point mutation at the 6th amino acid of the
β-globin chain encoded by the HBB gene. It is a prevalent disorder,
characterised by vaso-occlusive crises, inflammation, and anaemia.
Curative treatments, such as HLA-matched haematopoietic stem cell
(HSC) transplantation, are constrained by donor availability. At the same
time, recent ex vivo gene therapy approaches are limited by complexity,
risk of engraftment failure, and lack of accessibility. Prenatal gene therapy
may exploit immune tolerance and the need to modify only a small
population of cells. Base-editing, a CRISPR-Cas9-derived technology,
offers a precise and safer alternative for gene correction. Thus, we
hypothesize that prenatal base-editing can correct HSCs in utero to
produce Makassar haemoglobin (HbG) as a therapeutic strategy.
Methods: Adenine base-editors (ABEs) with guide RNAs (gRNAs)
were nucleofected into SS HSCs isolated from SCD patients’ peripheral
blood and editing confirmed by Sanger sequencing. SCD pathology
and erythropoiesis defects in the humanized Townes mouse model was
characterized using a cohort of 12 mice (6 males, 6 females) per genotype
(AA, SS). Blood was collected by cardiac puncture, and the spleen, bone
marrow, and liver were harvested for histological analysis (H&E and Perl’s
stains). Spleen weight was measured, and erythropoiesis in the spleen and
bone marrow (BM) was assessed using flow cytometry.
Results: Nucleofection of ABE-gRNA pairs into SS HSCs achieved up
to 89% correction at the HBB locus, with an average of 68% efficiency
(n=3). Townes SS mice exhibited splenomegaly (1.49 ± 0.31 g vs 0.20 ±
0.06 g, p<0.005), with H&E staining revealed architectural disruption of
the red and white pulp. Hematological analysis showed reduced hematocrit
128A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
(28.47 ± 6.85% vs 38.52 ± 1.79%, p<0.05) and hemoglobin levels (6.53
± 1.53 g/dL vs 11.00 ± 0.58 g/dL, p<0.05), along with elevated white
blood cell counts (23.30 ± 6.77 vs 3.60 ± 0.76 x 10^9/L, p<0.05) in SS
mice, indicating an anemic and inflammatory phenotype. Flow cytometry
analysis of CD71/TER119-stained erythroid precursors reveals ineffective
erythropoiesis in both the BM and spleen of SS mice (AA = 31.2% vs
SS = 52.2% in BM; AA = 4.0% vs SS = 9.7% in spleen; n=6, p<0.05).
Statistical analysis was conducted using a Mann-Whitney U test, where
p <0.05 is significant.
Conclusion: Base-editing efficiently corrects the HBB mutation in SS
HSCs. The Townes SS model displayed hallmark SCD features, with the
next step focused on editing foetal HSCs isolated from E13.5 liver, opening
the door for prenatal delivery using a nanoparticle vector.
T-078
Use of Acetazolamide during Pregnancy in Idiopathic Intracranial
Hypertension and Fetal Outcomes. Srividya Kottapalli†, Kendall Curtis†,
Erica Kemp, Janet Waters∗. University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA,
United States.
Introduction: Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) causes headaches
and left uncontrolled can cause irreversible visual loss. It is a condition
that typically affects overweight women of childbearing age. The first
line of treatment of IIH is acetazolamide. The safety of acetazolamide
use in pregnancy has not been established. Early animal studies were
suggestive of possible teratogenicity when used in high doses. Though a
few small case studies in the human population have not reported adverse
effects, women with IIH are often advised to discontinue this medication
during pregnancy. This poses a risk of acute worsening of the condition
in patients, including permanent vision loss. This retrospective study
examined fetal outcomes on offspring exposed to acetazolamide.
Methods: One hundred and eighty pregnancies in women with IIH with
a confirmed diagnosis of opening CSF pressure at or above 260 mm H2O
pressure who received care at a large academic medical center between
2013 and 2023 were included. Fetal exposure to acetazolamide and dose
per trimester was collected. Fetal outcomes such as rates of spontaneous
abortion/fetal demise, gestational age at birth, APGAR scores, congenital
anomalies, and health status at delivery were investigated. Appropriate
statistical analysis was performed for individual comparisons using
Mann-Whitney, Fisher’s exact, one-way ANOVA, and binomial tests.
Results: Among the pregnancies exposed to acetazolamide, similar doses
of acetazolamide were used across first (792 mg/day), second (901 mg/
day) and third (917 mg/day) trimesters (p=0.333). Rates of spontaneous
abortion in acetazolamide exposed pregnancies did not significantly
differ from those seen in the general population (p=0.278). APGAR 1
(p=0.261) and 2 (p=0.323) scores did not significantly differ between
groups. Gestational age at birth was not significantly different between
acetazolamide-exposed and non-exposed groups (p=0.706). Rates of
congenital anomalies at birth were not significantly different between
acetazolamide-exposed and non-exposed groups (p=0.357), or when
compared to the general population (p=0.076).
Conclusion: Though limited by the small size of the study, no adverse
outcomes to offspring were recorded. The study did not observe significant
teratogenic effects of acetazolamide on offspring. Similar rates of
spontaneous abortion and gestational age at birth, and APGAR scores
were seen between acetazolamide exposed and non-exposed groups.
This represents the largest study thus far of the use of acetazolamide in
pregnancy in women with IIH. Use of acetazolamide during pregnancy
may be considered in women with IIH who warrant treatment.
T-079
Transcriptomic Analysis of Hepatic Homeostatic Pathways Revealed
Pronounced, Gestation-Specific Functional Differences in the Preterm
Fetal Sheep. Hideyuki Ikeda,1 Shimpei Watanabe,1 Erin L Fee,2 Sean
W.D. Carter,3 Masatoshi Saito,1 Matthew W. Kemp,3 Haruo Usuda.2
1Tohoku University, Miyagi, Japan; 2University of Western Australia,
Perth, Australia; 3National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Introduction: The risk of reduced growth and kernicterus is greatly
increased in preterm infants. The liver plays a vital role in maintaining
newborn homeostasis. Its capacity to meet growth demands and
metabolism commonly used preterm therapies (i.e. parenteral nutrition,
antibiotics) is poorly understood. We aimed to develop a gestation-specific
transcriptomic profile of homeostatic regulation in the preterm fetal sheep.
Methods: Lambs were surgically delivered at 100d (human equivalent:
~24 weeks), 124d (~30 weeks), and 144d gestational age (term ~150d).
Fetal liver samples were collected from 4-6 lambs at each time point.
Transcriptomic profiles were obtained using bulk RNA-Seq (3’ directional,
30 million reads). Time course changes in gene expression were analyzed
through principal component analysis (PCA), differentially expressed
genes (DEGs) between time points, and k-means clustering, using a
threshold of false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05 and fold-change > 2.
Results: PCA plots showed clear separation among the three gestational
time points. Significant differences in DEGs were observed between
groups: 2,868 DEGs (1,834 upregulated / 1,034 downregulated: 100d vs.
124d), 5,799 DEGs (3,434 up / 2,365 down; 100d vs. 144d), and 2,382
DEGs (1,567up / 815 down; 124d vs. 144d). Venn diagram showed 692
genes were commonly upregulated and 181 genes were downregulated
with three comparisons. Enrichment analysis with k-means clustering
showed differential activation of 44 KEGG and GO pathways between
term and 100d animals, primarily related to metabolic processes of glucose
(glycolysis and gluconeogenesis), amino acids, and lipids. Additionally,
major gene sets of the uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase family,
essential for the detoxification of endogenous and xenobiotic compounds,
were significantly upregulated at term.
Conclusion: Relative to term (144d), hepatic tissues from 124d and 100d
ovine fetuses had marked immaturity in processes related to essential
nutrient metabolism and detoxification of endogenous and xenobiotic
compounds. These findings suggest that further work to inform neonatal
care protocols with greater reference to hepatic immaturity and develop
new therapies to compensate for liver function may improve preterm
outcomes.
T-080
Is the Cerebroplacental Ratio Superior to the Umbilical Artery and
Middle Cerebral Artery Doppler in Predicting Adverse Perinatal
Outcomes? Diya Yang†,1 Caitlin Bowers†,1 Allison Epstein†,1 Katie
Fioritto∗,2 Giancarlo Mari∗.2 1Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
OH, United States; 2University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH,
United States.
Introduction: It remains controversial whether the middle cerebral artery
(MCA), the umbilical artery (UA), or the ratio of the two, known as the
cerebroplacental ratio (CPR), provides the most information about severity
and prognosis of fetal growth restriction (FGR). Therefore, the aim of this
study was to compare the MCA Doppler, the UA Doppler, and the CPR
in FGR to predict perinatal outcomes.
Methods: This retrospective cohort study examined records in our FGR
database. FGR was defined by an estimated fetal weight or abdominal
circumference below the 10th percentile for gestational age. The MCA
Doppler pulsatility index (PI) was abnormal if below the lower limit of
our reference range. The UA Doppler PI is is abnormal when above the
95th percentile. The CPR was calculated by dividing the MCA PI by the
UA PI, with abnormal CPR defined as either less than 1 or below the 5th
percentile for gestational age. The adverse perinatal outcome (composite)
was defined by the presence of one or more of the following: Grade IIIIV
intraventricular hemorrhage, necrotizing enterocolitis, respiratory
distress syndrome requiring intubation, an APGAR score less than 7 at
five minutes, acidosis (newborn UA pH less than 7.1), or perinatal death.
We compared the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 129A
values (PPV, NPV), accuracy, and Receiver operating characteristic (ROC)
curves of a) MCA, b) UA, c) CPR, and d) either UA or MCA abnormal
for composite outcomes, using the last measurement before delivery.
Results: The study included 378 fetuses delivered at 36.6 weeks
(SD=3.8), with final Doppler measurements taken 7 days (IQR=[3,20])
before delivery. Several maternal and fetal pathologies were present
before delivery. A CPR cut-off of 1 showed highest specificity (90.2%)
and accuracy (83.1%) but lowest sensitivity (46.8%), while CPR below
the 5th percentile had highest sensitivity (74.2%) and AUC (0.714) but
lowest specificity (68.7%). UA or MCA alone demonstrated balanced
performance with moderate sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy. The
combination of UA and MCA resulted in slightly higher sensitivity
(72.6%) but lower specificity (73.1%), indicating a trade-off between
sensitivity and specificity with an AUC of 0.728. No measure achieved
an AUC above 0.8, indicating limitations in predicting adverse perinatal
outcomes.
Conclusion: The absence of a clearly superior parameter suggests
FGR may be a heterogeneous condition, potentially requiring tailored
approaches for different subgroups. Future research should evaluate how
these parameters predict long-term outcomes associated with various FGR
types. Investigating these parameters’ roles in diverse clinical scenarios
could enhance the application of Doppler ultrasound data in perinatal care.
T-081
Exploration of Fetal Ultrasound Parameters Related to Umbilical
Vein N-Terminal Pro-B-Type Natriuretic Peptide Levels. Shoko Saito†,
Hamada Hirotaka∗, Tadakawa Mari∗, Saito Masatoshi∗. Tohoku University
School of Medicine, Miyagi, Japan.
Introduction: Neonatal heart failure (HF) is a risk factor of multi-organ
complication, including the brain, lungs, and gastrointestinal tract.
Elevated levels of N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NTproBNP)
in umbilical vein (UV) blood have been linked to neonatal HF. We
hypothesized that UV-NTproBNP levels would increase before the
clinical onset of fetal HF and could be predicted using fetal ultrasound
parameters. The aim of current study was to explore fetal ultrasound
parameters associated with UV-NTproBNP levels.
Methods: We conducted a prospective cross-sectional study on pregnant
women who underwent perinatal management at our hospital from
April 2022 to March 2024. Missing values were handled using multiple
imputation. UV-NTproBNP levels were categorized into three groups:
low (< 500 pg/mL), middle (500-2,499 pg/mL), and high (> 2,500 pg/
mL). Group comparisons were performed using the Kruskal-Wallis
test followed by Dunn’s test. Ordinal logistic regression analysis was
performed, adjusting for confounding factors such as gestational age,
fetal growth restriction, and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. We
considered a probability value of < 0.05 to be statistically significant.
Results: A total of 202 singleton pregnancies delivered by cesarean section
were enrolled. The median UV-NTproBNP level was 604.5 pg/mL (range:
173-22,032 pg/mL). Several parameters showed significant differences
only in the high NTproBNP group. There were significant differences
between the low and middle groups in left cardiac output (CO) (p< 0.01),
left CO to right CO ratio (p< 0.01), and peak systolic velocity (PSV) of
anterior tibial artery to PSV of aorta ratio (p< 0.05), respectively. After
adjusting for confounders, only standard deviation of combined CO/kg
showed a clinically significant association (OR = 3.42, p< 0.05).
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that fetal ultrasound could detect
increases in UV-NTproBNP levels before the onset of fetal HF. Further
research is necessary to develop predictive models for UV-NTproBNP
levels using multiple fetal ultrasound parameters.
T-082
Hypoxic Ischaemic Encephalopathy: Antecedents and Clinical
Characteristics. George Timmons†,1 Deirdre Arthur†,2 Joy Geraghty,2
Anna Deasy,2 Michael O’Connell,2 Mark Philip Hehir∗.2 1Royal College
of Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin, Ireland; 2The Coombe Hospital, Dublin,
Ireland.
Introduction: Hypoxic ischaemic encephalopathy (HIE) is characterised
by disturbed neurologic function in the earliest days post-birth in neonates
born at or beyond 35 weeks of gestation. HIE is manifested by altered
consciousness or seizures, and is often accompanied by depressed
respiration, tone, and reflexes. While rare, HIEs can cause lifelong
neurologic injury and be traumatic for both families and healthcare
workers.
Methods: To characterize the antenatal period and management of
neonates diagnosed with HIE, and to identify common themes that
could be used to optimize patient care. This study involved retrospective
descriptive analysis of case chronologies involving non-anomalous
neonates diagnosed with HIE who were delivered at ≥35 weeks of
gestation between January 2020 - December 2023 at a large tertiary
referral centre in Ireland. HIE was defined based on cord gas pH <7.0
or base excess ≥12 in addition to relevant clinical, radiological, and
laboratory findings.
Results: Of 29,110 total deliveries recorded over the study period,
28 neonates diagnosed with HIE and were included for analysis. The
average age of mothers who gave birth was 32.3 years and average BMI
was 26.2kg/m2. 12/28 of mothers were nulliparous while 16/28 had
previously given birth. 3/28 pregnancies were complicated by gestational
diabetes, 2 by hypertension, and one by placenta praevia/accreta and one
delivery involved twins. 22/28 cases of HIE had no identifiable antenatal
risk factors and 15/28 were not admitted to hospital prior to presentation
their presenting in labour. At delivery 13/28 neonates were delivered by
spontaneous vaginal delivery, 12/28 by caesarean section, and 3/28 by
operative vaginal delivery. At delivery 24/28 had an Apgar score of <7 at
5min; 10/29 had an arterial cord pH of <7.0 and 13/29 had a base excess
of >12.0. Shoulder dystocia occurred in three deliveries and one woman
had a caesarean hysterectomy. Almost half of all cases of HIE (12/28) had
clinical seizures in the 24 hours after delivery. Therapeutic hypothermia
was performed in 26/28 cases.
Conclusion: HIE occurs in a small number of births. Similar number of
HIE were seen in vaginal deliveries and caesarean sections. Many cases of
HIE (>50%) did not have identifiable antenatal risk factors or necessitate
admission to hospital prior to presenting in labor. High rates of therapeutic
hypothermia were observed.
T-083
Intrauterine Infection Causes Neuroinflammation and a Selective
Loss of Immature Neurons in Preterm Non-Human Primate (NHP)
Fetuses. P Presicce,1 D Beckman,2 M Cappelletti,1 A Vu,1 S Ott,2 G Diniz,2
A Jobe,3 C Chougnet,3 S Divanovic,3 SS Way,3 J Morrison∗,2 S Kallapur∗.1
1UCLA, Los Angeles, CA, United States; 2UC Davis, Davis, CA, United
States; 3CCHMC, Cincinnati, OH, United States.
Introduction: Epidemiological data strongly links fetal exposure
to chorioamnionitis with adverse infant neurological outcomes, but
mechanisms are unknown. We hypothesized that choriodecidual
inflammation, independent of fetal bacteremia, induces fetal inflammation
sufficient to drive neurologic injury
Methods: We developed a NHP model of chorioamnionitis resulting in
fetal inflammation without bacteremia. Rhesus macaque at 85% gestation
had hysterotomy with surgical placement of a microosmotic pump in
the choriodecidua pocket for continuous infusion of agents for 72h,
followed by surgical delivery. 3 groups of animals were: 1) Controls:
saline infusion n=5; 2) Live uropathogenic E.coli (UTI89) infusion n=5;
3) E.coli as in #2 with antibiotics starting 24h after E.coli n=4. At delivery,
fetal inflammation was detected by plasma IL6 levels. Brain pathology/
inflammation was detected by multiparameter immuno-colocalization
of key neuron/glia cell markers, confocal microscopy, and quantitative
3D cell counts
130A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Results: Choriodecidua infusion of live E.coli caused localized
choriodecidua infection without microbial invasion in amniotic fluid.
Fetal plasma IL6 levels increased from 1.1±0.5 (mean±SE) in controls
to 28.3±18.6 pg/mL in E.coli group (p<0.05) without bacteremia. E.coli
exposed fetuses but not controls had brain inflammation and injury in
multiple areas, most prominently in periventricular white matter, thalamus,
and prefrontal cortex. Changes include 1) Increased abundance of IBA1+
immunostaining and ameboid morphology of microglia; 2) increased
presence of GFAP+ astroglia; 3) selective decrease of doublecortin+
immature neurons; and 4) disruption of the blood-brain barrier, suggested
by morphological alterations in claudin 5 staining. Notably, antibiotic
treatment reduced cord blood IL6 levels to control levels, but did not
decrease fetal neuro-inflammation and neuropathology
Conclusion: Chorioamnionitis-induced fetal inflammation without
bacteremia caused microglial driven neuroinflammation and a selective
reduction of immature neurons with a minor impact on terminally
differentiated neurons. Involvement of the periventricular white matter
injury and other areas of the brain is consistent with epidemiological
associations of chorioamnionitis with cerebral palsy, behavior disorders,
cognitive delays, and neuro-sensory impairments in childhood.
Importantly, antibiotic treatment was ineffective in reversing neuroinflammation
and the associated fetal brain injury. Our results suggest that
novel anti-inflammatory interventions based on understanding molecular
neuropathology may be necessary to protect the fetus from the deleterious
neurological consequences of chorioamnionitis
T-084
Bisphenol A Exposure during Pregnancy Alters Cerebrovascular
Function In Fetal Rats in Gender-Dependent Manner. Maurizio
Mandalà, Maria Carmen Esposito†, Federica Martorelli†, Milena Esposito†.
University of Calabria, Rende, Italy.
Introduction: This study is the first to investigate the impact of maternal
exposure to Bisphenol A (BPA) on the functional and structural integrity
of fetal cerebrovascular development. BPA, an endocrine-disrupting
environmental contaminant,is detectable in the blood and amniotic fluid
of pregnant women and is known to cross the placental barrier. This
raises significant concerns regarding its potential adverse effects on fetal
neurodevelopment. Given that cerebrovascular development is a complex
and highly regulated process beginning in utero, the prenatal period may
represent a critical window of susceptibility to BPA exposure.
Methods: We tested our hypothesis using an ex vivo approach. Pregnant
rats were exposed to BPA (2.5 μg/kg/day, n = 8) via drinking water,
while controls animal received BPA-free water (n = 8). Middle cerebral
arteries (MCAs) were isolated from fetal brains (n = 32: 16 males and
16 females) at late gestation, following removal from both BPA-exposed
and control dams. Functional and morphometric properties of the MCAs
were evaluated using a pressure myograph and histological analysis.
Results: Maternal BPA exposure significantly altered (p<0.01) MCA
vasoconstriction and vasodilation responses, measured using endothelin
and acetylcholine, respectively. Notably, the effect on vasoconstriction was
sex-specific: male fetuses exposed to BPA exhibited a substantial increase
(+123%) in MCA vasoconstriction compared to controls, while female
fetuses showed a marked reduction (-126%). In contrast, BPA exposure
led to increased MCAs vasodilation across both sexes . Furthermore, BPA
exposure influenced MCA lumen diameter (p<0.05), with males displaying
a reduced lumen size (-16%) and females exhibiting an enlarged a larger
lumen (+29%) compared to controls. No significant differences were
observed in MCA distensibility or wall thickness between BPA-exposed
and control fetuses.
Conclusion: Our finding provide novel evidence that fetal cerebral arteries
are targets of BPA, with pronounced sex-specific effects on cerebrovascular
function. These results highlight the critical impact of maternal BPA
exposure on key cerebrovascular properties, that are essential for
maintaining normal brain development and cognitive function. This study
underscores the importance of reducing environmental BPA contamination
to prevent potential long-term effects on fetal health.
T-085
Uterine Leiomyosarcoma Disease Heterogeneity Characterized in a
Novel Orthotopic Tumor Model. Megan Doherty†,1 Minnie Malik,1 Yuka
Otsuka,2 Nicholas Bateman,1 William Catherino.1 1Uniformed Services
University, Bethesda, MD, United States; 2National Defense Medical
College, Saitama, Japan.
Introduction: Uterine leiomyosarcoma (uLMS) is a rare, deadly
gynecological cancer. Preclinical research into effective treatments is
hindered by the lack of in vivo models that mimic human uLMS disease
progression. Most models use heterotopic sites by implanting cells or
xenografts subcutaneously, potentially altering growth dynamics and
treatment responses compared to tumors grown orthotopically, or within
the uterus. To address this unmet need, we developed a novel orthotopic
uLMS in vivo model and compared its growth characteristics to the
heterotopic model.
Methods: Three commercially available (SK-LMS-1, SK-UT-1B, SKUT-
1) and two patient-derived uLMS cell lines (ACI-44A, ACI-44B)
were used to develop heterotopic and orthotopic tumors. Heterotopic
tumors were formed by subcutaneous injection into NOD/SCID mice.
Primary tumors were harvested to create xenografts, which were implanted
subcutaneously in a new cohort. Orthotopic tumors were developed by
three strategies: cell injection, 3D culture implantation, or xenograft
implantation into the myometrium of a uterine horn. MRI monitored
orthotopic tumor growth.
Results: All uLMS cell lines demonstrated exponential tumor growth
following heterotopic cell injection, but cells injected in the uterine horn
did not survive. SK-UT-1 3Ds grew exponentially in both models, with
some orthotopic tumors metastasizing to the peritoneum, mimicking
human disease spread. Heterotopically implanted 3D cultures showed
variable growth over 6-10 weeks. SK-LMS-1 and SK-UT-1B 3Ds formed
heterotopic tumors significantly larger than from ACI-44B 3Ds (1475 mm3
and 474 mm3 vs 23 mm3; p<0.05). ACI-44B 3Ds notably lacked spheroidal
structure seen in SK-UT-1 3Ds. SK-LMS-1 xenografts grew exponentially
over 3-6 weeks in both models. The average final volume of orthotopic
tumors (367 mm3) was larger than heterotopic tumors (221 mm3), but
not significantly (p=0.55). Orthotopic tumors displayed well-developed
blood supply and marked cellular and nuclear pleomorphism. Necrosis
was seen in some heterotopic tumors, but none in orthotopic tumors.
Neither ACI-44A or ACI-44B xenografts formed orthotopic tumors.
ACI-44B xenografts grew exponentially heterotopically, averaging
301mm3 at 6 weeks.
Conclusion: Differential tumor growth among uLMS cell lines, depending
on implantation site and format, underscores the disease’s heterogeneity.
Intrauterine implantation allows for assessment of in situ disease
development. For cell lines that developed orthotopic tumors, increased
metastatic behavior and reduced necrosis were observed compared to the
heterotopic model. By mimicking physiological characteristics of human
uLMS, the orthotopic model offers significant potential for enhancing
understanding of uLMS and evaluating novel therapies.
T-086
Impact of Exposure to Maternal Obesity on Female Offspring’s
Lifespan and Susceptibility to Tumor Development in Murine Model.
Ariana Samaniego, Sureshkumar Mulampurath Achuthan Pillai, Madison
Lay, David Schmerber, Meera Rath, Egle Bytautiene Prewit∗. UT Health
San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States.
Introduction: Obesity has been linked to adverse long-term health
consequences and may shorten an individual’s lifespan. Research has
shown that women with obesity have higher estrogen levels, increasing
their risk of breast cancer. This study seeks to determine if offspring born
to obese mice have an increased risk of tumorigenesis and shorter lifespans
than those born to non-obese mice.
Methods: Pups born to dams fed a standard fat (SF, 5.8% fat) or high fat
(HF, 34.9% fat) diet three months before pregnancy, during pregnancy,
and lactation. After weaning, all female pups were placed on an SF diet.
At five weeks of age, blood samples from pups were collected via tail snip.
At six weeks of age, they were administered 10 mg 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]
anthracene (DMBA) in peanut oil by oral gavage for four weeks until
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 131A
they were nine weeks old. At 12 weeks, mice were weighed weekly,
mammary glands were palpated for abnormal growth, and blood samples
were collected. Blood samples continued to be collected every two months
until natural death, or tumors became 10% of body weight, or animals
reached 52 weeks of age. Klotho concentrations were measured in blood
serum at 6, 25, and 52 weeks of age. Appropriate statistical analysis was
performed, considering P-values less than 0.05 as significant.
Results: Average body weights were not significantly different between SF
and HF female pups administered DMBA (P=0.83). Repeated Measures
analysis revealed statistically significant differences by treatment
(P=0.017) and by age (P <<0.0001). Klotho concentrations decreased
significantly over time (P <<0.0001). A total of 63 tumors were found,
with 42 in the HF DMBA and 21 in the SF DMBA. Tumor distribution
in HF DMBA mice included uterine (26.6%), ovarian (15.6%), breast
(14.1%), lung (4.7%) and cervical (3.1%). In SF mice, the distribution
was uterine (10.9%), lung (10.9%), breast (9.4%), and ovarian (1.6%).
By week 73, the mortality rate for HF DMBA mice was 12.36%, while
the SF DMBA mortality rate was 5.6%. Survival curve analysis revealed
significant differences between groups in overall survival (P=0.0043) and
tumor development (P <<0.0001).
Conclusion: Maternal obesity and DMBA administration negatively
impacted offspring weight. The decrease in Klotho concentration over
time suggests a link between maternal diet and aging. HF mice had a
greater incidence of tumors, particularly in the reproductive organs and
a higher mortality rate, suggesting that maternal diet affects offspring
health outcomes. These results emphasize the importance of maternal diet
on offspring’s long-term health, particularly in cancer susceptibility and
longevity. Further research is needed to explore the mechanisms driving
these effects and develop strategies to reduce cancer risk and improve
future generations’ health outcomes.
T-087
The Impact of Anemia Prior to and during Pregnancy on
Breastfeeding. Jessica Chung†, Julie Szczygielski†, Amy Pan, Liyun
Zhang, Anna Palantik∗. Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI,
United States.
Introduction: Pregnancy and lactation are associated with increased
iron requirements due to physiological changes. Anemia in pregnancy is
common and impacts maternal and neonatal health. Maternal anemia after
delivery is associated with a risk of unsuccessful initiation of exclusive
breastfeeding (BF). The objective of this study was to assess the impact of
anemia prior to and during pregnancy on BF initiation and continuation.
Methods: A secondary analysis of participants with BF data who were
enrolled in randomized trial of nutrition supplementation conducted in
low-resource settings: Democratic Republic of Congo, Guatemala, India,
and Pakistan. Those who had a miscarriage or stillbirth and multifetal
gestations were excluded. The primary exposures were anemia prior
to and during pregnancy (hemoglobin<11 g/dL), along with receipt of
nutrition supplementation as the study intervention. The outcome was
BF up to 6 months of life. Analysis included Chi-square test, Fisher’s
exact test, Kruskal-Walli’s test, Mann-Whitney Wilcoxon test, and
logistic regression.
Results: A total of 2,111 women with live births were analyzed. Women
with anemia prior to and during pregnancy were younger and had
lower parity, less education, lower BMI, and short interval pregnancy
when compared to women without anemia. Of all live births, 2,103
(99.62%) were BF at 1 month postpartum, while 1,539 (72.90%) were
exclusively BF 1 month postpartum. There was no difference between
the three groups for exclusively breastfeeding at 1 month (p=0.062). At
6 months postpartum, 2,098 (99.38%) of live births were BF, while 863
(40.88%) were exclusively BF. At 6 months, women with anemia prior
to pregnancy were less likely to exclusively BF when compared to those
without anemia (38.95% vs. 46.56%, p=0.005); similarly, women with
anemia in pregnancy were less likely to exclusively BF compared to those
without anemia (39.07% vs. 46.56%, p=0.008). There was no difference
between women exclusively breastfeeding at 6 months who had anemia
prior to and during pregnancy (p=0.962). There was no difference when
comparing women with anemia prior to pregnancy and during pregnancy
(p=0.313). Unadjusted odds ratio for BF at 1 month postpartum for those
without anemia to those with anemia prior to and during pregnancy were
0.89 (95% CI 0.16-4.91, p=0.89) and 1.42 (95% CI 0.20-10.17, p=0.72),
respectively. At 6 months postpartum, the unadjusted odds ratio for
breastfeeding comparing those without anemia to those with anemia prior
to and during pregnancy were 1.30 (95% CI 0.41-4.14, p=0.66) and 7.28
(95% CI 0.85-62.64, p=0.07).
Conclusion: Most women started BF after delivery and exclusively BF
1 month postpartum, regardless of anemia status. They were less likely
to exclusively BF at 6 months. Anemia prior to and during pregnancy did
not impact BF initiation and continuation of BF at 6 months.
T-088
The Effect of Doula Care on Early Warning Signs and Severe Maternal
Mortality: A Systematic Review. Seun M Ajoseh†,1 Wasana Weerasuriya,2
Omowonuola Ogundele†,1 Ronee Wilson∗,3 Adetola Louis-Jacques∗.1
1University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States; 2South University,
Tampa, FL, United States; 3University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United
States.
Introduction: Early warning sign (EWS) identification and management
can reduce Severe Maternal Morbidity (SMM). Doula care has been shown
to improve women’s birthing experiences and outcomes. However, it is
less clear if doula care is associated with early identification of EWS and
a reduction in SMM. Our objective was to synthesize the literature on
SMM and EWS when doula care is utilized.
Methods: We conducted a search of electronic databases and grey
literature from inception to February 2023. We included primary studies
that assessed the effects of Doula care on CDC-defined EWS or SMM.
Reviewers assessed the risk of bias alongside data extraction and
narratively synthesized the data.
Results: Deduplicated articles (n=3847) were screened, and 6 were
included. All studies were quantitative, with 4 retrospective cohorts, 1
cross-sectional study, and 1 cluster-randomized field trial. Of the 4 studies
on SMM, one study found no differences in all 21 SMM indicators, while
another study found a reduced need for blood transfusion with doula
care compared to controls. The third study explored eclampsia with
preeclampsia, and the fourth study combined a composite score including
blood transfusion and non-SMM indicators but found no differences with
doula care compared to standard care. Of the 2 studies on EWS, one
study found a significant increase in doula’s post-test knowledge of EWS
after training (p<.01), while the other study found a positive association
between virtual doula care and birthers’ knowledge of EWS even with
one visit (95% CI, 1.10-1.44).
Conclusion: Doula training increased doula’s EWS knowledge, and doula
care was associated with increased birthers’ EWS knowledge. However,
there were mixed findings regarding the benefit of doula care on SMM.
Further trials assessing SMM and EWS are needed to understand if and
how doulas influence SMM and EWS.
T-089
The Exposure to Preeclampsia Differentially Alters miRNA Profiles
of Circulating Placental-Derived Extracellular Vesicles in Transgenic
Rats with Persistent Hypertension at Two Months Postpartum. Brian
Westwood, Xuming Sun, Yixin Su, Sangeeta Singh, Jonathan Ray, NyKea
L. Lewis, Ashish Kumar, Gagan Deep, Liliya M. Yamaleyeva∗. Wake
Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, United States.
Introduction: The exposure to preeclampsia (PE) increases maternal
risk for future cardio-cerebrovascular disease. A dysfunctional placenta is
considered a major contributor to the maternal syndrome in PE. We have
previously reported a sustained hypertension and altered cerebrovascular
resistance in a rat model of PE (TGA-PE: female TG/angiotensinogen
mated to male TG/renin) at 2 months post-gestation. Since circulating
extracellular vesicles (EVs) serve as major components of intracellular
communication, we hypothesize that the microRNA profiles of circulating
placental-derived EVs (EVPlacental) will be different in PE versus normal
pregnant Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats at 2 months post-gestation revealing
novel targets for future postpartum therapeutic interventions.
132A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Methods: Systolic blood pressures (SBP) were measured by tail cuff
method. Total EVs were isolated from plasma through sequential
centrifugation and precipitation using ExoQucik. The percentage of
placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP)+ EVs was measured by nano-flow
cytometry. EVPlacental were immuno-captured using PLAP antibody and
characterized by nanoparticle tracking analyses. Small RNA sequencing
was performed in RNA isolated from EVPlacental and interquartile
range (IQR) group profile (IQR-score vs. groupwise t-test correlation
p<0.0001) was used to rank miRNA for discrete correlate summation
(DCS) clustering and identification of targets in DAVID gene-enrichment
analysis. 48 KEGG pathways were nest-scored for miRDB targets score
(MTS)≥95 and Swiss-Prot blood pressure and pregnancy MTS≥80 genes
(95BpPreg, n=122) relative to all other IQR-score/DCS MTS≥80 gene
targets (MTS80, n=404).
Results: SBP were increased in TGA-PE vs. SD at 2 months postpartum
(146.4±2.7 vs. 114.7±1.9; n=13-19, p<0.05). Total EV and EVPlacental size
and concentrations were not different between TGA-PE and SD. However,
the amount of circulating PLAP+ EVs was greater in TGA-PE vs. SD
(7.1±0.9 vs. 5.7±0.1, n=3, p<0.05). The miRNA seq revealed 13/1512
miRNA with significantly different levels in TGA-PE vs. SD with 7
up- and 6 downregulated miRNAs. Three miRNA are being validated
with PCR. Fisher’s exact test for 28 TGA-PE down vs. 22 TGA-PE
up miRNA in EVPlacental for above vs. below IQR yielded p<0.0001 and
likelihood ratio=15.7. Nest scores of 95BpPreg to MTS80 revealed cellular
senescence, MAPK, FoxO, TNF signaling, and VSMC contraction target
pathways.
Conclusion: The exposure to preeclampsia differentially alters miRNA
profiles of circulating EVPlacental in rats with persistent hypertension at 2
months postpartum. These data suggest a link between the dysfunctional
placenta and postpartum cerebrovascular alterations in this model of PE.
T-090
How Does Lactation Affect Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Obese
Murine Mothers? David Schmerber, Meera Rath, Ariana Samaniego,
Kaitlin D. Kersh, Ashlie-Chellsie Aminkeng, Madison Lay, Egle Bytautiene
Prewit∗. UT Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States.
Introduction: The prevalence of obesity—a major cardiovascular
risk factor—continues to rise in the US and other Western countries.
Epidemiological and our earlier experimental data indicate that lactation
triggers mechanisms associated with a lowered risk of developing
cardiovascular disease. Still, there is little data on how lactation affects
obese mothers. The emerging prominence of obesity underlines its use as
a condition in current research. Thus, we sought to elucidate the potential
long-term benefits and drawbacks of lactation in obese mice.
Methods: Female CD-1 mice were fed a high-fat diet (39.4% kcal fat)
from three months before breeding until weaning. Lactating (L) mothers
nursed their pups until 21 days post-partum, while non-lactating (NL)
mothers were separated from their pups at delivery, eliminating lactation.
Weight, fasting glucose, and blood pressure (BP) via tail cuff were
measured at baseline, one month post-partum, and six months postpartum
(PP). Six months PP, mice were euthanized, and their tissues were
collected. Relative gene expression of Oxytocin (OXT) and Oxytocin
Receptor (OXTR) in mouse hearts and hypothalamus were determined
using qPCR since these genes have been shown to improve cardiovascular
health and social adaptations. Student t-test or Man-Whitney test were
used for statistical analysis (P less than 0.05)
Results: NL mothers showed better cardiovascular health at six months
post-partum. NL mice initially weighed significantly more than L mice
at 21 days PP (P=.04); this difference subsided by six months PP. At six
months PP, systolic BP (P = .042), mean arterial pressure (P = .0491),
and fasting glucose (P = .0085) were significantly lower in the NL mice.
OXT expression in the heart was significantly higher (P = .0103) in
NL mice compared to L mice. OXTR expression in the hypothalamus
was significantly higher (P = .0356) in L mice compared to NL mice,
suggesting more prosocial behavior and better stress response.
Conclusion: Obese murine mothers were shown to respond differently
to lactation as compared to our previous findings in non-obese mice.
Moreover, at six months postpartum, NL obese mice had lower blood
pressure and fasting glucose levels and increased OXT expression in
the heart. These findings alone suggest that NL obese mothers have
lower chances of developing cardiovascular disease. However, obese
mice that lactated had higher OXTR expression in the hypothalamus,
indicating that the benefits of non-lactation are not entirely one-sided.
Future investigations into the mechanisms driving discordant responses
between obese and non-obese mice are needed.
T-091
The Maternal Transcriptome Response to Infection is Modulated by
Fetal Sex. Bogdan Panaitescu†,1 Roberto Romero∗,2 Nardhy Gomez-
Lopez,3 Maria Fernanda Escobar,4 Gaurav Bhatti,1 Arun Meyyazhagan,1
Tinnakorn Chaiworapongsa,1 David R Bryant,1 Adi Tarca∗.1 1Wayne State
University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI, United States; 2National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States; 3Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, MO, United States; 4Universidad Icesi,
Cali, Colombia.
Introduction: Pregnant women are more susceptible to microorganisms
(bacteria and viruses) and their products than non-pregnant women or
men. This has been attributed to changes in the innate immune response
(cellular and soluble components), and this explains the predisposition
for maternal death and severe illness during COVID-19. This study was
undertaken to determine whether fetal sex modulates the host response
of pregnant women with COVID-19.
Methods: Whole blood transcriptomes of pregnant patients with SARSCoV-
2 infection (n=72) and uninfected controls (n=29) were analyzed
using RNA-Seq. COVID-19 cases were stratified according to NIH
severity criteria. Differential gene expression analysis was performed,
using DESeq2 R package, with adjustment for gestational age at sampling.
Significance was inferred at adjusted p-value <0.1 and fold change >1.25.
Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses were conducted
on differentially expressed genes. Linear models and interaction tests
assessed differences in gene expression changes by disease severity and
fetal sex.
Results: Principal component analysis revealed COVID-19 status as the
main source of gene expression variability (PC1 difference p<0.0001).
We identified 4,436 genes with altered expression in COVID-19 (q <
0.1, fold change > 1.25). These transcriptomic changes were enriched in
diverse biological processes, including pathogen defense responses and
immune functions. Several KEGG pathways were perturbed, notably
Coronavirus disease and neutrophil extracellular trap formation. The
magnitude of RNA changes correlated with disease severity, with mild
(slope 0.5, p<0.001) and severe cases (slope 0.6, p<0.001) showing
lower changes relative to critical cases. Pregnancies with male fetuses
exhibited attenuated maternal blood RNA changes compared to those
with female fetuses (slope 0.53, p<0.001). We identified 34 transcripts
with significant sex-specific disparity in COVID-19 response (q-value
<0.1), associated with immune processes (antigen presentation, interferon
response, inflammation regulation), cellular stress responses, and DNA
repair mechanisms.
Conclusion: Pregnancies with a male fetus exhibit a dampened
transcriptomic response to COVID-19, particularly in immune and stressrelated
genes. These fetal sex-specific differences may influence disease
progression and outcomes in pregnant COVID-19 patients.
T-092
Association of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF-A) Levels
with Anxiety during Pregnancy: Insights from the Happy Mother,
Healthy Baby Study in Pakistan. Kruti A Mehta†,1 Semra Etyemez,1
Mehrose Ahmad,1 Simone Harris,1 Ahmed Zaidi,2 Najia Atif,2 Atif
Rahman,3 Abid Malik,2 Kristin M Voegtline,1 Pamela Surkan,4 Osborne
M Osborne.1 1Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, United States; 2Human
Development Research Foundation, Gujar Khan, Pakistan; 3University
of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom; 4Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: VEGF-A plays a crucial role in embryogenesis,
implantation, and placentation in pregnancy; its dysregulation relates to
poor pregnancy outcomes, such as pre-eclampsia and preterm delivery.
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 133A
Beyond its vascular functions, VEGF-A regulates neuroplasticity and
cognitive function and is, therefore, also involved in mental health.
Despite the growing interest in the role of VEGF-A in perinatal mental
health, the literature on the association of VEGF-A with anxiety remains
contradictory. This study investigates the association between VEGF-A
levels and anxiety and examines the potential moderating effects of
inflammatory markers on VEGF-A levels in relation to perinatal anxiety
within a Pakistani cohort, as part of the randomized controlled Happy
Mother, Healthy Baby (HMHB) study.
Methods: In the present study, follow-up of 117 pregnant women was
done over three trimesters of pregnancy and six weeks postpartum.
Anxiety was measured by Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - HADS
while plasma VEGF was assayed using V-PLEX Human VEGF Kit by
electrochemiluminescence. Participants included healthy controls and
participants with anxiety, identified as those with a HADS score of ≥8,
excluding those with concurrent depression.
Results: Present findings indicated an increase in plasma VEGF levels
from T1 through T3 across the study population. Although anxiety levels,
as differentiated by K-means clustering, did not markedly affect VEGF
concentrations, trend level differences were found between the High
Anxiety and Non-Anxiety groups during T2 and T3. Innate immune
activity moderated the relationship between VEGF-A and anxiety
symptoms at T1 (β= -2.053 p=0.011) and at T2 (β= -3.2224, p=0.009) in
the entire analytic sample. In women with higher levels of innate immune
activity, lower VEGF-A levels at T1 were associated with higher levels of
anxiety at T1 and T2. Chemokine activity didn’t moderate the relationship
between VEGF-A and anxiety symptoms at any timepoint.
Conclusion: This study demonstrates the longitudinal level of VEGF-A
across pregnancy as well as the effect of innate immune activity on the
relationship between VEGF-A and anxiety in a diverse Pakistani cohort.
These results underscore the need for further exploration into how immune
system modulators influence the dynamics between VEGF and anxiety,
providing vital insights for prenatal care and intervention strategies in
similar socioeconomic settings.
T-093
Standing up a Doula Program in an Academic Medical Center. Ahnyia
Sanders†,1 Cherise Hamblin.2 1UMass Chan Medical School, Worcester,
MA, United States; 2UMass Memorial Health, Worcester, MA, United
States.
Introduction: The benefits of Doula support to birthing people have
been generally accepted. States across the country are adopting Medicaid
coverage of Doula services. In order to realize the impact of coverage
of Doula services, patients must actually receive Doula services through
Medicaid. Barriers to utilization of Doula benefits can be overcome by
various means, including hospital-based Doula programs. The UMass
Memorial Doula Program is an antiracism effort, created to improve
experiences and outcomes of Black birthing people at UMass Memorial
Hospital; a large academic medical center. The program was developed to
build upon the expansion of Doula services as a recently covered benefit
by Massachusetts Medicaid.
Methods: The team collaborated with grassroots organizations, doulas,
care organizations, coalitions, Medicaid, and internal departments to better
understand available resources and system needs. This helped identify
opportunities for collaboration and mutual benefit. With support from the
OBGYN department, the team developed a framework for the program,
including hiring and training doulas. When Medicaid approved doula
coverage, the framework was adjusted to include a compensation process
for doulas. A medical director, program coordinator, and two doula/patient
navigators were hired. Their responsibilities include recruiting patients,
educating patients and providers, and running childbirth and breastfeeding
support groups. A database of local doulas was established, and patients
interested in receiving doula care are matched with a doula. The doulas/
patient navigators also update patient charts in EPIC and conduct
screenings for social determinants of health (SDOH) and mental health.
Results: Birthing people who will deliver at UMass Memorial Maternity
Center (UMMMC), are 16-36 weeks pregnant, self-identify as Black,
and speak English, Spanish, Haitian Creole, Brazilian Portuguese, or
Twi are eligible to enroll. To measure the impact this program has on the
experience and obstetric outcomes of Black birthing people, ICD-10 codes
will be monitored to obtain a composite Severe Maternal Morbidity score,
qualitative interviews will be analyzed, and quantitative surveys will be
administered to all participating individuals. By integrating linguistic and
culturally congruent doulas into the care team as patient navigators with
EPIC access, we ensure our patients with the worst outcomes receive
the best care.
Conclusion: While Medicaid coverage of Doula support is critical to
expand access to Doula care, Doula programs within hospitals can help
to build a bridge between Doulas in the community and the medical
providers.
T-094
A Risk-Stratified Approach for Postpartum Thromboprophylaxis:
A Cost-Effective Analysis. Carolyn Green, Kylee Huck, Sarah Dzubay,
Aaron Caughey. Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR,
United States.
Introduction: Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a known contributor
to maternal morbidity and mortality following cesarean delivery, but
guidelines for postpartum thromboprophylaxis vary. The use of enoxaparin
for postoperative thromboprophylaxis in at-risk populations is standard
practice at many institutions, but its use has also been associated with
surgical complications, including wound hematoma. Furthermore,
enoxaparin use in low-risk individuals may not provide additional
benefit toward reducing rates of VTE. A recent study by Champion et al.
identified that a more selective, risk-stratified protocol for postpartum
thromboprophylaxis led to lower rates of wound hematoma without
increasing rates of VTE in the postpartum period. Our analysis compares
the cost-effectiveness of a more selective vs standard risk approach to
postpartum thromboprophylaxis for individuals at risk for VTE in the six
weeks following cesarean delivery.
Methods: A TreeAge Pro decision analysis model was conducted to
compare outcomes between standard and selective risk protocols for
postpartum thromboprophylaxis. The theoretical cohort was 1,178,066
individuals, the estimated number of cesarean deliveries per year in
the United States. Outcomes included cost, quality-adjusted life years
(QALYs), wound hematoma, and VTE. Probabilities, utilities, durations,
and costs were derived from the literature. A willingness-to-pay threshold
was set at $100,000/QALY, with a discount rate of 3% per QALY.
Results: The more selective, risk-stratified protocol was associated with
cost savings of $139,742,188, as well as 216 additional QALYS and 4,535
fewer surgical complications, including wound hematoma. Conversely,
the standard protocol was associated with 492 fewer VTEs as compared
to the selective risk protocol.
Conclusion: This study demonstrates that a more selective, risk-stratified
protocol is a cost-saving approach for thromboprophylaxis following
cesarean delivery. While the risk for VTE is higher when following a
more selective protocol, overall rates for VTE remain relatively low in
consideration of the overall rates of caesarean delivery in the United
States. Institutions may wish to revise thromboprophylaxis guidelines
for reduced cost burden, with the additional benefit of lower risks for
surgical complication due to wound hematoma.
T-095
Correlation of Maternal Reticulocyte Hemoglobin Content with
Neonatal Iron Status at Delivery by BMI Group. Kaitlyn P Casper†,1
Kimberly A Moyle,1 Amanda A Allshouse,1 Ashley Benson,2 Timothy M
Bahr,1 Robert D Chirstensen,1 David W Branch∗.1 1University of Utah,
Salt Lake City, UT, United States; 2Oregon Health Sciences University,
Portland, OR, United States.
Introduction: Neonatal iron deficiency is associated with anemia, autism,
schizophrenia, and neurodevelopmental challenges later in childhood.
Prior studies have not demonstrated a strong association between maternal
and neonatal iron status when using ferritin and hemoglobin (Hgb) as
maternal markers for iron status. Reticulocyte hemoglobin content (RETHe)
is a measure of iron status commonly used in neonates that, unlike
ferritin, is not affected by inflammation. A recent study suggests RET-He
134A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
may be a more accurate marker of iron stores than ferritin in pregnancy,
particularly in individuals with obesity, presumably due to a chronic
inflammatory state. We aimed to re-evaluate the relationship between
maternal and neonatal iron status using traditional ferritin and Hgb as
well as RET-He. Secondarily, we stratified this correlation by BMI < 30
kg/m2 and BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2.
Methods: This is a prospective cohort study of pregnant individuals
enrolled in early pregnancy; enrollment was stratified 1:1 by BMI < 30
kg/m2 and by BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2. Maternal Hgb, ferritin, and RET-He were
measured at admission for delivery. Neonatal RET-He was measured from
cord blood samples. Spearman correlation (r) and 95% confidence interval
were calculated for each pairwise comparison overall and by BMI group.
Results: Of 177 individuals enrolled, 65 (37%) were included in the
analysis; the majority of individuals were excluded due to missing
neonatal RET-He. Of the 65 included, 38 had a BMI < 30 kg/m2 and
27 had a BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2. The association between maternal RET-He
and neonatal RET-He was positive and significant for the whole cohort,
r = 0.323 (0.082-0.525), p=0.009, and in those with BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2,
r=0.438 (0.053-0.701), p=0.024. In those with a BMI < 30 kg/m2, there
was a smaller and non-significant correlation of maternal RET-He with
neonatal RET-He, r=0.278 (-0.050-0.546), p=0.091. The association
between both maternal Hgb and ferritin, and neonatal RET-He were
small and non-significant across all cohorts. Maternal Hgb correlation
with neonatal RET-He was non-significant for all groups: whole cohort
r=0.030 (-0.216-0.272), p=0.814; BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2 r=0.195 (-0.204-0.533),
p=0.334; BMI < 30 kg/m2 r=0.022 (-0.300-0.339), p=0.899. Similarly,
maternal ferritin correlation with neonatal RET-He was non-significant
for all groups: whole cohort r=0.023 (-0.235-0.277), p=0.865; BMI ≥
30 kg/m2 r=0.148 (-0.266-0.511), p=0.486; BMI < 30 kg/m2 r=-0.015
(-0.351-0.325), p=0.933.
Conclusion: Maternal RET-He is moderately correlated with neonatal
RET-He in both the whole cohort and those with a BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2. The
correlations of maternal Hgb and ferritin with neonatal RET-He were
weak and non-significant across all cohorts.
T-096
Hemoglobin Threshold to Detect Postpartum Transfusion Risk. Sarah
H Abelman†, Frank I Jackson, Nathan A Keller, Luis A Bracero, Matthew
J Blitz. Northwell, New Hyde Park, NY, United States.
Introduction: Traditional hemoglobin thresholds for defining anemia
in pregnancy are based on population distributions, rather than on their
clinical impact on outcomes. This study aims to establish a pre-delivery
hemoglobin threshold that best predicts the need for postpartum blood
transfusion, providing a more clinically relevant definition of anemia to
guide management.
Methods: This was a retrospective cohort study of all deliveries that
occurred at 7 hospitals within a large health care system in New York
from 2019-2022. The primary exposure was maternal hemoglobin level on
admission for delivery. The primary outcome was the need for postpartum
transfusion. Receiver operating curve (ROC) plots were used to calculate
an area under the curve to determine an optimal hemoglobin threshold to
predict the need for transfusion.
Results: A total of 107,442 deliveries were included for analysis. The
risk of blood transfusion postpartum in the entire population was 3%.
Using ROC plots, it was found that a hemoglobin threshold of 9.9 was
the optimal threshold to produce a 6% chance (or double the risk) of
needing a transfusion. A hemoglobin threshold of 7.2 was the optimal
threshold to predict a 20% chance of needing a transfusion. The area
under the curve was 0.68.
Conclusion: Standard anemia definitions based on population hemoglobin
distributions may not be the optimal threshold for identifying patients
at risk for postpartum transfusion. Using different thresholds that better
reflect increased risk may be beneficial in determining which patients
would benefit from interventions such as prophylactic tranexamic acid,
putting blood on hold or having it available in the delivery room, or even
pre-delivery transfusion.
T-097
Effects of Low Frequency Electroacupuncture on Skeletal Muscle Akt
Protein Expression in Pregnant Wistar Rats. Amanda Nubelo,1 Jessica
Chung,2 Keara McElroy-Yaggy,1 Thomas L Jetton,1 David Coggin-Carr.1
1University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, United States; 2Medical College
of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, United States.
Introduction: We previously showed electroacupuncture (EA) improves
whole-body insulin sensitivity, impacts pancreatic weight and restores
impaired fetal growth in pregnant rats exposed to high-fat, high-sucrose
(HFS) diet from 6-8 weeks pre-conception (Coggin-Carr et al. Reprod
Sci 2021; Chung et al. BJOG 2022). EA may have a role in prevention/
treatment of gestational diabetes; however, its mechanism of action is not
fully understood. EA may influence insulin signaling via local effects on
muscles receiving electrical stimulation, but may also impact unstimulated
muscles innervated at the same spinal level and/or anatomically remote
muscles via segmental and supraspinal reflex effects, respectively
(Uchida et al. 2017 Autonom Neurosci). Aim: to examine for such effects
by comparing protein expression/phosphorylation of Akt (key insulin
signaling pathway intermediate) in directly stimulated muscle (tibialis
anterior [TA], L4), unstimulated segmental control muscle (extensor
digitorum longus [EDL], L4) and unstimulated anatomically remote
control muscle (biceps brachii [BB]).
Methods: TA, EDL and BB samples were obtained from 14 pregnant
Wistar rats randomized to HFS diet (TestDiet 58V8) containing 20%
sucrose and providing 45% energy from fat (n=6) or control (Con) diet
(n=8) for 65±4d pre-mating and throughout pregnancy, then to subgroups
receiving 12 sessions of EA to TA, rectus abdominis and triceps surae
(10mA intensity, 3/15Hz frequency, 30min/day) under 2-3% isoflurane
anesthesia (HFS+EA [n=4] and Con+EA [n=3] groups) or anesthesia only
(untreated Con [n=3] and HFS [n=4] groups) and euthanized on E20±1.
Tissue samples were homogenized in lysis buffer containing protease/
phosphatase inhibitors. Proteins were extracted and quantified by BCA
method. Expression of total Akt and activated p-Akt (S473) were measured
by Western blotting and normalized to housekeeping protein GAPDH
using fluorescence detection. Data were analyzed by two-way ANOVA
with diet (HFS vs. Con) and EA (treated vs, untreated) as fixed factors.
Results: Relative expression of Akt in TA was 0.038±0.001, 0.043±0.002,
0.038±0.001 and 0.048±0.003 in Con, Con+EA, HFS and HFS+EA
groups, respectively. Corresponding values were 0.041±0.0006,
0.052±0.004, 0.039±0.001 and 0.045±0.001 for EDL and 0.052±0.002,
0.060±0.003, 0.045±0.003 and 0.054±0.003 for BB. Independent of diet,
EA increased Akt expression in TA (p=0.005), EDL (p=0.030) and BB
(p=0.019). There was no effect of diet or significant diet*EA interactions,
and no differences in p-Akt expression or p-Akt/Akt ratio.
Conclusion: Irrespective of diet, EA increased total Akt levels in all three
muscles. While further mechanistic research is needed, it appears that the
impact of EA is not simply local and likely involves somato-autonomic
reflex effects.
T-098
Physical Activity Counseling and Activity Restriction
Recommendations for Pregnant Patients with Fetal Growth
Restriction. Alissa Paudel,1 Elizabeth C Kirby,2 Rachel A Tinius,3 Linda
M. Szymanski,4 Taniya S Nagpal,5 Kristina Carter,1 Kimberly B Fortner,1
Nikki B Zite,1 Alicia Mastronardi,1 Jill M. Maples.1 1University of Tennessee
Graduate School of Medicine, Knoxville, TN, United States; 2University of
Tennessee Health Sciences Center, Memphis, TN, United States; 3Western
Kentucky University, Bowling Green, KY, United States; 4Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, MN, United States; 5University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB,
Canada.
Introduction: Fetal growth restriction (FGR) affects up to 10% of
pregnancies and consistent professional guidelines regarding physical
activity (PA) in the setting of FGR are lacking, particularly among severe
FGR. Our prior survey-based work found that MFM and Ob/Gyn providers
recommend decreasing PA levels or modified bedrest, with increasingly
complicated FGR pregnancies.
Methods: This retrospective study assessed self-reported survey data
from individuals diagnosed with FGR. Respondents were asked to
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 135A
recall their own PA levels, provider counseling and activity restrictions
recommendations after diagnosis. Potential differences in counseling were
compared across groups with differing severities of FGR at diagnosis
(EFW < 3%, EFW 3 to < 10%). Self-reported PA throughout pregnancy
was assessed using 2 questions adapted from the American College of
Sport’s Medicine’s Exercise Vital Signs.
Results: Data from 58 respondents were included in the analysis. The
majority (60.7%) recalled receiving no counseling from providers
regarding PA and 19.6% recalled receiving guidance to restrict activity
after FGR diagnosis. Of those that received counseling, 50% recalled
recommendations to decrease PA. There were no differences in recall of
PA counseling nor recommendations to restrict activity when comparing
groups stratified by FGR severity (p=0.240, p=0.343). Self-reported
moderate-to-vigorous PA decreased among the entire cohort across
pregnancy but did not differ between groups (pre-preg mean = 60 min/
wk, 1st tri. = 30, 2nd tri = 9, 3rd tri = 0 min).
Conclusion: While previous work from our group found that providers
report recommending decreased PA levels or modified bedrest with
increasingly complicated FGR pregnancies; this trend was not recalled
by patients with an FGR diagnosis. More research into the potential
benefits and/or risks of PA or activity restriction for patients diagnosed
with FGR, stratified by severity and etiology, is needed. Guidance
regarding appropriate patient counseling is also beneficial. Additional
clarity regarding the impact of exercise on maternal and fetal health in
pregnancies complicated by FGR may further help to improve the quality
of care in pregnancy.
T-099
PROMISES Study: A Prospective Feasibility Study of Salivary
Progesterone as a Test for Detecting Risk of Preterm Birth in Rural
Community Settings in India. Jiadai Mi†,1 Priyanka Garg,2 Nishtha
Kathuria,2 Paul Seed,1 Pankhuri Sharma,2 Simi Khan,2 Mohan Ghule,2 Ritu
Dargan,2 Archana Sarkar,2 Atule Tayade,3 V B Shivkumar,3 Sunil Mehra,2
Poonam Shivkumar,3 Rachel M Tribe∗.1 1King’s College London, London,
United Kingdom; 2MAMTA Health Institute for Mother and Child, Delhi,
India; 3Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Maharashtra, India.
Introduction: India faces high rates of preterm birth (PTB) and associated
neonatal mortality and morbidity. The scarcity of early detection
tools for PTB, coupled with economic and resource limitations, poses
substantial challenges, particularly in rural areas. The potential of salivary
progesterone as a biomarker for PTB prediction remains controversial,
but some studies suggest that low progesterone may indicate PTB risk
in asymptomatic women. The PROMISES study aimed to assess the
feasibility and efficacy of salivary progesterone as a low-cost biomarker
for early PTB risk prediction in rural community settings in India.
Methods: This prospective feasibility study explored the feasibility of
low-cost salivary progesterone testing for PTB prediction in Madhya
Pradesh, India. Women were identified in early pregnancy with support
from local accredited social health activist workers. A total of 3312
pregnant women with singleton pregnancies were recruited. Gestational
assessment (<20 weeks) was conducted via ultrasound scan. Salivary
samples were collected at 24 to 28+6 weeks’ gestation and progesterone
measured using ELISA.
Results: Of the enrolled participants, 2282 had complete gestational
data at delivery available, and 954 provided usable saliva samples. The
PTB rate in the cohort was 20.11% < 37 weeks, and 8.26% < 34 weeks.
However, no significant correlation between low salivary progesterone
concentrations and an increased risk of PTB was found (odds ratios of
1.19 [95% CI 0.79 to 1.78] for deliveries <37 weeks and 0.90 [95% CI
0.46 to 1.79] for <34 weeks).
Conclusion: We successfully delivered a complex pregnancy study, and
report PTB rates, within a rural setting in India. We demonstrated a poor
predictive utility of salivary progesterone for risk of PTB in this cohort.
The loss of usable saliva samples emphasises the critical importance of
effective cold chain management during transportation. Future research
must focus on developing and validating accessible and cost-effective
tools for early PTB risk assessment for resource-constrained settings.
Funders: DBT-BMGF-BIRAC-USAID Award of Grand Challenge India
- All Children Thriving - India.
T-100
DUSP9 Involvement in Development of the Hemochorial Placenta.
Mahfuz R Adnan†, Esteban M Dominguez†, Ayelen Moreno-Irusta, Marija
Kuna, Khursheed Iqbal, Michael Soares∗. University of Kansas Medical
Center, Kansas City, KS, United States.
Introduction: Deep intrauterine invasion of trophoblast cells and
modification of uterine spiral arteries are key factors in the establishment
of a successful pregnancy. These actions on the uterine vasculature are
executed by invasive trophoblast cells, referred as extravillous trophoblast
(EVT) cells in humans. Appropriate modulation of mitogen-activated
protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is essential for a healthy placenta.
Dual specificity phosphatase 9 (DUSP9) is a mitogen-activated kinase
phosphatase, which inactivates MAPK family members (ERK, JNK,
p38). DUSP9 is expressed in the placenta and dysregulated in placental
diseases such as preeclampsia. In this project, we investigated DUSP9
involvement in hemochorial placentation.
Methods: Distribution of DUSP9 transcripts in human and rat placentation
sites were assessed using in situ hybridization. Human trophoblast stem
(TS) cells were used to assess DUSP9 involvement in the regulation of
EVT cell differentiation, while the rat was utilized to establish a model
to test the in vivo role of DUSP9 in development of the hemochorial
placenta. Loss-of-function approaches, including expression of short
hairpin RNAs (shRNA) and CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing, were used
to investigate the role of DUSP9 in trophoblast cell differentiation and
placental development.
Results: DUSP9 is expressed in EVT cells from first trimester
placentation sites and invasive trophoblast cells within the rat uterineplacental
interface. Additionally, DUSP9 expression increases as human
TS cells transit from the stem state to differentiated EVT cells. shRNA
mediated DUSP9 disruption in human TS cells interferes with EVT cell
differentiation. Global disruption of the X-linked Dusp9 gene caused
prenatal lethality, precluding investigation of its role in trophoblast cellguided
development of the uterine-placental interface. Consequently, we
have implemented a Cre-lox approach to inactivate Dusp9 in the invasive
trophoblast cell lineage. LoxP sites were inserted into intronic regions 5’
of Exon 2 and 3’ of Exon 3 of the Dusp9 gene. Floxed rats were mated
with an invasive trophoblast cell-specific Cre-recombinase expressing rat
strain (Prl7b1-Cre). Phenotypic analysis is underway.
Conclusion: Collectively, our findings indicate the importance of DUSP9
and its modulation of MAPK pathways in the regulation of hemochorial
placenta development. [Supported by Lalor Foundation postdoctoral
awards (EMD, AMI), NIH K99 award (HD115834, AMI), NIH R21
award HD104071 (KI), HD20676, HD105734, HD112559, and the
Sosland Foundation]
T-101
Defining Trophoblast Cell Lineages within the Rat Placenta Using
Single-Cell RNA-Sequencing. Sabrena Rutledge†,1 Marija Kuna∗,2
Michael J. Soares∗,2 Geetu Tuteja∗.1 1Iowa State University, Ames, IA,
United States; 2University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS,
United States.
Introduction: The placenta is crucial during pregnancy, and its improper
formation is linked to disorders affecting both the mother and fetus.
During early placental development, trophoblast cells invade into maternal
tissues and remodel maternal blood vessels, establishing blood flow
to the placenta. The rat is useful for studying intrauterine trophoblast
cell invasion, as the depth of invasion in rats is similar to that seen in
humans. However, the developmental trajectory of invasive trophoblast
cells in the rat is poorly understood. This study aims to annotate rat
invasive trophoblast cell types, which arise from a compartment in the rat
placenta termed the junctional zone, using single-cell RNA sequencing
(scRNA-seq).
Methods: Rat placentation sites were collected at gestation day (gd)
14.5, and dissections were performed to enrich for junctional zone
compartments, which were processed for scRNA-seq. Intact placentation
136A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
sites were collected and frozen for histological analysis. The scRNA-seq
samples were processed with Chromium Single Cell kits, and sequencing
was performed using a NovaSeq 6000 at the KUMC Genome Sequencing
Facility. Raw scRNA-seq data was processed with the CellRanger and
Seurat pipelines using the ‘vst’ selection.method and a resolution of 0.5.
Clusters were annotated using known marker genes and an annotation
tool we have developed that leverages gene expression data from human
tissues. In-situ hybridization experiments were conducted with the
RNAscope® Multiplex Fluorescent Reagent Kit v2 (Advanced Cell
Diagnostics).
Results: Analysis of the scRNA-seq data resulted in 22 clusters
corresponding to ten cell types. The cell annotation methods gave
consistent results suggesting the conservation of cell types between rats
and humans. Focusing on trophoblast cells, re-clustering identified 14 new
subpopulations. Pair-wise differential expression analysis organized half
of these subpopulations into a differentiation trajectory, indicating both
progenitor-like proliferative and mature trophoblast cells in the gd 14.5
junctional zone. Subpopulation-specific markers were validated using
in-situ hybridization, confirming their spatial localization and supporting
computational predictions.
Conclusion: Comparing gene expression profiles between pairs of clusters
from the scRNA-seq data identified progenitor-descendant relationships
for seven of the 14 trophoblast cell subpopulations. Trophoblast cell
trajectories will be further refined by assaying the rat junctional zone at
other gestational stages, which will improve our understanding of invasive
trophoblast cell lineage development.
T-102
Mitochondrial Dysfunction and Oxidative Stress in Selective Fetal
Growth Restriction. Wang Yanlin. International Peace Maternity & Child
Health Hospital, Shanghai, China.
Introduction: Placental dysfunction is the primary cause of selective fetal
growth restriction (sFGR), and the specific role of mitochondria remains
unclear. This study aims to elucidate mitochondrial functional defects
in sFGR placentas and explore the roles of mitochondrial genomic and
epigenetic alterations in its pathogenesis.
Methods: The placental villi of MCDA twins with sFGR were collected
and the morphology and number of mitochondria were observed by
transmission electron microscopy. Meanwhile, the levels of reactive
oxygen species (ROS), ATP and oxidative damage markers were
assessed. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number detection, targeted
sequencing and methylation sequencing were performed. The expression
of placental cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COX I) and mitochondrial
long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)was evaluated by Western blotting and
qPCR.
Results: Compared with normal fetuses, pronounced mitochondrial
damage within cytotrophoblast was revealed in sFGR placentae,
alongside augmented mitochondrial number in syncytiotrophoblast.
Enhanced oxidative stress in these placentae was evidenced by elevated
markers of oxidative damage, accompanied by increased ROS production
and diminished ATP generation. In sFGR placentae, a notable rise in
mitochondrial copy number and one heterozygous mutation in the MTRNR2
gene were observed, along with decreased COX I levels, increased
lncND5, lncND6, lncCyt b, and MDL1 synthesis, and decreased RMRP
synthesis.
Conclusion: These findings collectively confirmed an exacerbation of
oxidative stress within sFGR placentae, culminating in mitochondrial
dysfunction, compromised energy production, and ultimately the failure
of compensatory mechanisms to restore energy balance, which may result
from mutations in the mitochondrial genome and abnormal expression of
epigenetic regulatory genes.
T-103
The Impact of Prenatal Opioid Exposure on Placental Function. Jiayu
Meng†,1,2 Elena Sadovsky,1 Tianjiao Chu,1,3 Oren Barak,4 Elizabeth E.
Krans,1,3 Yoel Sadovsky,1,3 Yingshi Ouyang∗.1,3 1Magee-Womens Research
Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, United States; 2Tsinghua Medicine, Tsinghua
University School of Medicine, Beijing, China; 3University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, United States; 4Kaplan Medical Center,
The Hebrew University-Hadassah School of Medicine, Rehovot, Israel.
Introduction: Illicit opioid use in pregnancy has increased over the past
decade, leading to adverse pregnancy outcomes such as fetal growth
restriction and even intrauterine fetal death. Although the placenta
plays an essential role in promoting fetal growth, development, and
pregnancy health, whether prenatal opioid exposure has a direct impact
on placental trophoblasts remains unclear. As opioids trigger cellular
responses that depend on opioid receptors (OPRs), we investigated the
expression and function of the two main OPRs, OPRM1 and OPRD1, in
human trophoblasts. Focusing on mononuclear cytotrophoblasts (CTB)
and multinuclear syncytiotrophoblasts (STB), we hypothesized that the
expression of OPRs is altered during differentiation of CTB to STB,
leading to distinct responses to opioids.
Methods: We utilized three models: term placental specimens, trophoblast
stem cells from first-trimester CTBs (TSCTB), and primary human
trophoblasts (PHT cells) isolated from healthy term placentas. Using
ChipCytometry, we first defined the expression and distribution of OPRs
in the term human placenta. Then, using real-time quantitative PCR (RTqPCR)
and western blot, we assessed the expression of OPRs in TSCTB and
in PHT cells that were cultured in conditions that maintain stemness or
promote differentiation. Functionally, using a nanobody-based biosensor
of activated OPRs, we interrogated the differential response of OPRs to
synthetic opioid agonists in the two distinct cell states.
Results: We found that OPRM1 and OPRD1 proteins were expressed in
the STB layer of healthy term placentas in a distinct spatial distribution.
While the expression of the OPRM1 mRNAs declined in STB vs CTB
derived from PHT cells (10.6-fold, p<0.05), we found that the expression
of OPRM1 protein significantly increased in STB vs CTB derived
from PHT cells (7.5-fold, p<0.05) or TSCTB cells (1.81-fold, p<0.05),
suggesting a discordant regulation of OPRM1 at the mRNA and protein
expression. Importantly, when TSCTB cells were exposed to the OPRM1-
selective agonist DAMGO or to the OPRD1 selective agonist DPDPE,
the OPR biosensor changed from uniform intracellular distribution to a
notable punctate structure, indicating activation of OPRM1 and OPRD1.
Assessment of OPR activation in STB vs CTB is currently underway.
Conclusion: OPRM1 and OPRD1 are expressed and are activatable
by opioid agonists in human placental trophoblasts. Importantly, the
expression of OPRM1 trophoblasts is influenced by cell differentiation,
suggesting a phenotype-specific effect of opioids on trophoblasts.
T-104
Trophoblast Limits Inflammatory Response of Macrophages and
Promotes Pro-Angiogenic Actions of the Uterine Microbiome. Damián
O. Muzzio∗, Karoline T. M. den Oudsten†, Chiara A. Drechsler†, Marek
Zygmunt∗. University Medicine, Greifswald, Germany.
Introduction: Macrophages play a crucial role in the defense against
pathogens. During early pregnancy, they also support placentation by
promoting vasculo- and angiogenesis. Despite the delicate balance
between pro- and anti-inflammatory signals that regulate placentation,
the uterine microbiome plays an important role on these events. How
a pro-angiogenic function of macrophage is driven without eliciting
excessive immune responses towards the microbiome is not known yet.
We postulate that early pregnancy factors, as decreased oxygen availability
and trophoblast-derived molecules shape macrophage function to support
angiogenesis and maintain pregnancy tolerance in the presence of a
microbiome.
Methods: The monocyte cell line THP-1 and magnetic isolated peripheral
blood CD14+ cells were cultured in the presence of conditioned media
of the trophoblast cell lines HTR-8/SVneo and JEG-3 for 5 days. The
resulting trophoblast-educated macrophages were further cultured under
early pregnancy (1 %) or atmospheric (21 %) oxygen concentrations.
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 137A
Finally, the cells were confronted with inactivated bacteria (Fusobacterium
nucleatum) and the expression of angiogenic regulators IL-8, VEGF,
MCP1 and MIP1ɑ was evaluated. Cell phenotype, bacterial recognition
receptor TLR2 and the antigen presentation molecule HLA-DR were
analyzed by flow cytometry and qPCR; the expression of soluble factors
was analyzed by ELISA and qPCR. Data were analyzed by ANOVA
(Dunnett’s post-test or Šídák correction) or Friedman test (Dunn’s
post-test). A Padj value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
Experiments were performed with six biological replicates.
Results: Trophoblast conditioned media and low oxygen concentrations
induced several adaptions in the cell phenotype, including the
enhancement of CD14+CD16+CD86- subpopulations, regarded as decidual
macrophages. The treatment also reduced the expression of bacterial
recognition receptors and antigen presentation molecules. The angiogenic
capacity was enhanced after bacterial treatment.
Conclusion: Under early pregnancy conditions, such as the influence
of the trophoblast and low oxygen availability, macrophages acquire
a tolerant phenotype towards the microbiome, which at the same time
enhances their angiogenic capacity.
T-105
Transcriptomic Comparison of Placental Explant and Organoid
Models to Study Syncytiotrophoblast Differentiation. Juan F Garcia
Rivas, Wendy K Duan†, Sumaiyah Z Shaha†, Ivan K Domingo, Meghan
Riddell∗. University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
Introduction: The villous lineage of the placental epithelial cells includes
progenitor cytotrophoblasts (CT) and the syncytiotrophoblast (ST). The
ST is a multinucleated cell which orchestrates the complex interactions
between the fetus and the mother. Multiple models to study trophoblast
differentiation exist. We have developed an in vitro model (TSC derived
organoids) and an ex vivo model (first trimester placental explants) to
address model villous differentiation. Both models result in appearance
of a multinucleated β-hCG and syndecan 1 positive cells. Our goal was
to better understand and compare these characteristics of these models
by performing deep RNA-sequencing analyses.
Methods: Organoids are derived from the human CT29 TSC line via
culture in a Synthecon Rotary Cell Culture System. Organoids were
collected after 18 and 48 hrs in rotational culture for downstream analyses.
For the explant model, 9-12wk gestational age human placental tissues
were cut into explants and trypsinized to denude the ST and cultured for
up to 72hrs. RNA bulk sequencing, immunofluorescence and confocal
microscopy were performed in both the organoid and explant models for
characterization purposes.
Results: As expected, GO pathway analyses revealed that explants have
a significant non-trophoblastic cell population compared to organoids,
with enrichment of endothelial and extracellular matrix pathways in this
model. Bulk RNA-seq gene expression analyses showed that explants and
organoids have different expression patterns of ST marker genes. Explants
had higher expression of PSG genes and PAPPA, whereas organoids had
higher expression of CGB subunits. Furthermore, explants also had higher
expression of BCAM compared to the organoids, showing that explants
have an enhanced ability to retain a bipotential niche.
Conclusion: Deep phenotyping analyses revealed that explants have an
enhanced propensity to retain a bipotential niche compared to organoids.
ST formed in both models have similar marker protein expression, but
different patterns of ST mRNA marker expression. With the emerging
data showing that ST nuclei produce molecularly distinct mRNA profiles,
comparing ST produced with explants and organoids may be particularly
useful to elucidate how ST nuclear identity is determined.
T-106
A 3D Model for In Vitro Mechanistic Studies on Trophoblast-
Endometrium Interactions. Mahe Jabeen,1 Victoria Karakis†,1 Ling
Yuan∗,2 Adriana San Miguel∗,1 Steven Young∗,2 Balaji Rao∗.1,3 1North
Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, United States; 2Duke School of
Medicine, Durham, NC, United States; 3Golden LEAF Biomanufacturing
Training and Education Center, North Carolina State University, Raleigh,
NC, United States.
Introduction: Upon embryo implantation, the trophectoderm gives rise
to epithelial cytotrophoblast (CTB), which differentiates into extravillous
trophoblast (EVT) or multinucleate syncytiotrophoblast. The interaction
between trophoblast cells and maternal endometrium is crucial to ensure
successful implantation and placentation. Maternal uterine cells such
as endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) regulate the invasiveness of EVTs.
Abnormalities in this process can cause placental defects. Current in vitro
models fail to recapitulate the complex environment at the maternal-fetal
interface. These 2D systems do not incorporate critical differentiation cues
provided by the extracellular matrix (ECM) or include non-physiological
differentiation triggers not relevant in vivo. As EVT differentiation
involves both matrix degradation and cell migration, a 3D cell culture
system with ECM proteins found in vivo is necessary.
Methods: We developed a 3D cell culture system with defined ECM,
and associated imaging protocols and image analysis algorithms to
study human trophoblast stem cells (hTSCs) differentiation to EVTs
in the presence of primary ESCs. Instead of the commonly used, yet
poorly defined Matrigel, a defined ECM composed of Collagen I and
Laminin-111 was used; these ECM proteins are found in the uterus. Our
image analysis algorithm provides quantitative metrics on EVT invasion
depth, spatial distribution within the 3D gel, and differentiation markers,
allowing the study of invasion and differentiation simultaneously. The
invasion was quantified by analyzing the penetration depth of EVTs into
the ECM. Differentiation was assessed by measuring HLA-G levels, an
indicator of EVT maturation.
Results: Our results show that EVTs showed reduced invasion in the
presence of decidualized stromal cells (DSC) relative to non-decidualized
stromal cells (NDSC). However, EVTs show a higher level of HLA-G in
the presence of DSC compared to NDSC, indicating decidualization as a
regulatory mechanism that limits trophoblast invasion, yet helps with EVT
maturation. Also, insulin was found to play a role in EVT differentiation
under varying insulin levels. Specifically, insulin enhanced HLA-G but did
not have a significant impact on invasion depth in our model, supporting
that decidualization is a barrier to excessive invasion. In pilot studies, the
role of IGF2 was also explored, revealing its influence on EVT behavior
and stromal cell decidualization.
Conclusion: Our 3D model is a valuable tool for studying molecular
mechanisms of EVTs at the maternal-fetal interface in controlled and
physiologically relevant settings.
T-107
Non-Classical Roles for CDKN1C and Other Cell Cycle Regulators
in Extravillous Trophoblast Cell Development. Regan L Scott†,1 Kaela
M Varberg,1 Marija Kuna,1 Esteban Dominguez,1 Michael J Soares∗.1,2
1University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States;
2Children’s Mercy Research Institute, Kansas City, MO, United States.
Introduction: Development of a healthy placenta is crucial for a
successful pregnancy. Early in gestation, trophoblast stem (TS) cells
differentiate into terminal lineages. One of these lineages, extravillous
trophoblast (EVT) cells, invades into uterine tissue and facilitates spiral
artery remodeling to increase blood supply to the fetus and reduce shear
stress on the maternal vasculature. Aberrant trophoblast cell invasion
causes devastating outcomes in pregnancy, including early pregnancy
loss, intrauterine growth restriction, preeclampsia, and preterm birth.
Cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 1C (CDKN1C) has a classical role in
regulating the cell cycle and has also been implicated as a regulator of
invasive trophoblast cell lineages. The purpose of this investigation was to
examine a role for CDKN1C in the regulation of EVT cell development.
Methods: Gene and protein expression in placental tissue and TS cell
models were assessed by immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization,
138A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
and western blot. Human TS cell models were used to evaluate regulatory
mechanisms controlling EVT cell differentiation. Lentiviral delivery of
short hairpin RNAs was used to deplete gene expression in TS cells, and
as models to evaluate mechanisms controlling EVT cell differentiation.
RNA sequencing and quantitative RT-PCR were utilized to assess
transcriptomic changes.
Results: CDKN1C was localized to EVT cell columns of the first trimester
placenta and increased in expression as TS cells differentiated to EVT
cells. Disruption of CDKN1C resulted in increased cell proliferation
and interruption of the normal progression of EVT cell differentiation.
An upregulation of transcripts associated with the cell cycle and
downregulation of EVT cell-related transcripts were observed. CDKN1C
typically engages with cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) and cyclin (CCN)
complexes to modulate their activity. CDK7 and CCNE1 were the only
CDK/CCN components prominently expressed in EVT cells and were
also expressed in EVT cell columns. Disruption of CDK7 or CCNE1
negatively affected EVT cell differentiation. Considerable overlap was
identified between CDK7 and CCNE1 differentially expressed genes
(DEGs). A subset of these DEGs were shared with CDKN1C.
Conclusion: CDKN1C, CDK7, and CCNE1 each promote TS cell
differentiation to the invasive EVT cell lineage. The nature of their
cooperativity is a subject of our ongoing experimentation. [Support:
F31HD104495 (RLS), R00HD107262 (KMV), HD020676, HD105734,
HD112559, and the Sosland Foundation]
T-108
Galectin-1 Induces the Inhibition of MMP-9 Secretion Through the
Downregulation of LPS-Induced IL-6 in HTR8-SVneo Cells: A Key
Player in the Immunomodulatory Game of Trophoblast Function.
Samara Rodríguez-Flores,1 Pilar Flores-Espinosa,1 Andrea Olmos-Ortiz,1
Raúl Flores-Mejía,2 Octavio Rodríguez-Cortés,2 Marycarmen Godínez-
Victoria,2 Claudia C Calzada-Mendoza,2 Cecilia Helguera-Repetto,1
Veronica Zaga-Clavellina.1 1Instituto Nacional de Perinatología, Mexico
City, Mexico; 2Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Mexico City, Mexico.
Introduction: Galectin-1 (Gal-1), a member of a family of evolutionarily
conserved glycan-binding proteins, is differentially expressed at the
maternal-fetal interface, playing a critical role in the placentation and
trophoblast invasion during the first trimester. However, the role of this
lectin has not been elucidated under infection/inflammation conditions.
This work aimed to evaluate the role in vitro of Gal-1 on pro-inflammatory
and pro-degradative modulators in human HTR8-SVneo cells challenged
with bacterial endotoxin
Methods: 500,000 HTR8-SVneo cells /well were pre-stimulated with 1.0
and 1.5 ng/mL of human recombinant (hrGal-1) for 12h; then, the culture
medium it was refreshed and the cells co-stimulated with hrGal-1 and
10ng/mL of LPS for 12 and 24 h; the pre- and co-stimulus with hrGal-1 it
were renovated every 6 h. To evaluate if the effect of hrGal-1 on MMP-9
was mediated by IL-6, the cells were co-stimulated with Tocilizumab,
a monoclonal antibody that blocks the IL-6 receptor. The levels of IL-6
and MMP-9 were measured by ELISA, and the data were analyzed by
the Mann-Whitney U test.
Results: In comparison with LPS alone [237.2 (203.08-269.93) pg/mL],
the co-treatment for 12h with 1.5 ng/ml of hrGal-1 significantly reduced
IL-6 secretion by 20% [191.52 (179.74-204.73) pg/mL]. Additionally,
in comparision with the stimulation with LPS [78.36 (74.82-85.26) pg/
mL], the co-stimulation with 1.5 ng/ml of hrGal-1 induced a significant
decrease of 17% in the MMP-9 total [64.68 (56.57-68.81) pg/mL]
secreted to the culture medium. The inhibitory effect of hrGal-1 was
maintained 24h after co-stimulation, and its effect was reverted by lactose.
Comparing the concentration of MMP-9 in the cell lysates stimulated
with endotoxin [64.87 (62.7-100.3) pg/mL], the co-treatment with 1.0
and 1.5 ng/mL of hrGal-1 for 12 h diminished a mean of 21.08%; this
effect was manteined after 24. The co-stimulation of the cells with LPS,
hrGal-1, and Tocilizumab allowed us to demonstrate that by blocking
the receptor of IL-6 for 24 h, the level of MMP-9 in the cell lysates
diminished significantly.
Conclusion: These results support that under pro-inflammatory conditions
induced by bacterial endotoxin, Gal-1 can contribute to the decrease
in the secretion of IL-6, a cytokine that can jeopardize the tolerogenic
environment; however, the diminution of IL-6 downregulates the secretion
of MMP-9, a metalloproteinase key in the migration and invasion of the
trophoblast and critical in the creation of the maternal-fetal interface.
T-109
Sex Specific Regulation of Adrenomedullin in Gestational Diabetes
and Its Implication for Feto-Placental Development. Madhulata Singh
Chauhan, Yuan Lin Dong, Michael Belfort, Chandrasekhar Yallampalli.
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States.
Introduction: Adrenomedullin (ADM) levels increase with advancing
gestation in both serum and placenta to support physiological fetoplacental
growth. However, a greater elevation in serum ADM levels is
associated with gestational diabetes (GDM). We recently reported that
ADM increases glucose intolerance by inhibiting insulin secretion in
animal models and isolated pancreatic β cells, which could alter fetal
growth. Several reports show sexual dimorphism in GDM pathology
characterized by impaired placental function. This study was designed
to determine if increased expression of placental ADM and its G-protein
coupled receptors is associated with GDM in a sex dependent manner, and
if sex steroid hormone treatments alter ADM expression in trophoblast
cells.
Methods: Maternal serum MR-proADM levels were measured in women
with GDM and non-GDM controls using an enzyme-linked immuno-assay
developed to detect midregional pro-adrenomedullin (MR-proADM), a
stable cleaved product of the prehormone that directly correlates with
ADM. Placental expression of ADM and its receptor (CRLR) was assessed
using quantitative PCR (qPCR). The effects of testosterone and estradiol
on ADM expression and nutrient transporter expression in response to
ADM were evaluated in trophoblast HTR-8/SVneo cells via qPCR.
Results: 1) GDM women had significantly higher serum MR-proADM
levels than non-GDM women (p<0.01) correlating positively with the
GDM mothers carrying a male fetus. 2) Maternal serum MR-proADM and
placental ADM mRNA levels were positively correlated, 3) Testosterone
dose-dependently upregulated ADM and CRLR mRNA in trophoblast
HTR-8/SVneo cells (P<0.05), while estradiol had no effect, and 4) ADM
treatment of HTR-8/SVneo cells upregulated glucose transporters GLUT3
and GlUT4 and the amino acid transporter LAT2 (P<0.05).
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that placental ADM mRNA levels
are influenced by fetal sex, with higher levels associating with women
carrying male fetus in GDM. The upregulation of placental ADM system
in GDM pregnancies, combined with testosterone-induced increase
in trophoblast ADM mRNA, highlights a potential mechanism for
sex-specific differences in GDM. These results suggest a role for sex
dependent placental ADM signaling for altered feto-placental growth in
the pathology of GDM.
T-110
Racial Discrepancies in Placental Gene Expressions of Preeclamptic
Patients Independent of BMI and Gestational Age in a Southeastern
USA Cohort. Amalia Brawley†, Madison Ives†, Cayman Bickerstaff†,
Gibson Cooper†, Stephanie Stokes†, Safia Ogbi, Desmond Moronge†,
Elisabeth Mellott†, Mona Elgazzaz, Padmashree Woodham, James Maher,
Jessica Faulkner∗. Medical College of Georgia at Augusta University,
Augusta, GA, United States.
Introduction: Black patients have a higher prevalence of preeclampsia
(PE) than white patients in the USA, a disparity often attributed to
racially discrepant comorbidities such as obesity that disproportionately
affect black patients. However, whether genetic expressions that heighten
risk for PE are more prevalent in black patients independent of these
comorbidities is seldom investigated in controlled cohorts. Using a
cohort of patients obtained in the Southeastern USA, we hypothesized
that placental expression of PE-associated factors is elevated in black
compared to white patients independent of BMI.
Methods: Placentas were collected from black (n=14) and white (n=4)
PE patients, by ACOG diagnostic criteria, at a tertiary medical center
in Augusta, Georgia, USA. We utilized digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) to
quantify mRNA expression of PE markers in homogenized tissue: soluble
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 139A
FMS-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1), placental growth factor (PlGF),
endothelin converting enzyme-1 (ECE-1), preproendothelin-1 (PPET-1)
and leptin. We assessed pairwise comparisons with Student’s t-test and
correlations with Pearson’s coefficient.
Results: Neither BMI nor gestational age (GA) at delivery differed
between black (BMI 40.5±3.4; GA 34.3±1.2 wks) and white (BMI
45.2±14.3, p=0.63; GA 31.7±2.6 wks, p=0.32) patients. Expression
of sFlt-1, PlGF, ECE-1, PPET-1, and leptin did not differ significantly
between black and white patients (p>0.05 for all markers). Expression
of sFlt-1, PlGF, ECE-1, and leptin correlated with BMI in white patients
(sFlt-1 R2=0.76, PlGF R2=0.65, ECE-1 R2=0.98, leptin R2=0.99), but not
in black patients (sFlt-1 R2=0.03, PlGF R2=0.19, ECE-1 R2=0.24, leptin
R2=0.19). PPET-1 did not correlate with BMI for either group (white
R2=0.01, black R2=0.00).
Conclusion: In BMI-matched black and white patients, sFlt-1, PlGF,
ECE-1, PPET-1, and leptin expression does not differ in the placenta.
However, our data indicates that BMI regulates expression of the genes for
sFlt-1, PlGF, ECE-1, and leptin in a racially discrepant manner, favoring
a correlation in white patients but not black. Therefore, obesity may not
induce placental dysfunction/PE via similar mechanisms in white and
black patients.
T-111
Placental Growth Factor Signaling is Associated with Sex Differences in
Childhood Triglyceride Levels. Ellen C Francis,1 Dana Dabelea,2 Thomas
Jansson,2 Wei Perng.2 1Rutgers Biomedical Health Sciences, Piscataway,
NJ, United States; 2University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus,
Aurora, CO, United States.
Introduction: Sex differences in metabolic biomarkers are evident in early
life and track across the lifecourse. These differences may be attributed to
sex-specific differences in hormones, growth, and physiological response
to early life conditions, with emerging evidence that males and females
respond differently to the in utero environment, which is driven in part
by placental function. However, the role of placental function in sex
differences in metabolic health across childhood is underexplored. We
aimed to characterize placental growth factor signaling and its association
with sex differences in metabolic biomarkers during childhood.
Methods: In the Healthy Start prospective pregnancy cohort, placenta
villus tissue was collected from 93 term deliveries. Using simple western
blotting, we quantified key placental proteins involved in insulin/growth
factor signaling, environmental stress/inflammation, mTOR signaling,
and energy sensing. At age five, fasting blood was collected and analyzed
for a metabolic panel, leptin, and adiponectin (n=7 analytes). We used
principal component analysis to consolidate placental protein data into five
principal components (PCs). We applied multivariable linear regression
with interaction terms to assess sex differences in offspring metabolic
biomarkers at age five with respect to placental function PC scores,
adjusting for age and BMI.
Results: The sample was 53% male. No sex differences were observed
in maternal metabolic and demographic characteristics. At birth, females
weighed less (3.2 ± 0.4 kg vs 3.0 ± 0.4 kg; P=0.02) and at age five had
higher triglyceride (TAG) and leptin levels than males. A placental PC
characterized by lower insulin growth factor-1 receptor protein expression,
and higher environmental stress/inflammation/growth factor and mTOR
signaling activity explained lower TAG but not leptin levels in childhood.
This finding was driven by associations among female offspring for whom
a 1-unit increment in the score for this placental PC predicted -12.4 ± 5.1
mg/dL lower TAG levels (P=0.01), independent of age and BMI.
Conclusion: In females, the differences in TAG, but not leptin, were
explained by a placental profile characterized by differences in growth
factor signaling. These findings highlight the role of placental function in
shaping sex-specific metabolic health and provide new insights into the
placenta’s long-term influence on normal sex-dimorphic development.
T-112
Sex-Specific Placental Transcriptome Differ by Placental Region in
Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy. Shilpi Sehgal†, Purnima Iyer†∗,
Lucy Chang†, Tracy Ha†, Mark Hlatky∗, Virginia Winn∗. Stanford School
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, United States.
Introduction: Evidence suggests that the pathophysiology of hypertensive
disorders of pregnancy (HDP) may differ by fetal sex through perturbed
placental function. Different placental regions have been implicated, with
impaired placentation occurring at the basal plate (BP) and abnormal
release of factors from the syncytium of the chorionic villi (CV). To
determine the sex-specific and regional pathophysiology of HDP, we
conducted transcriptomics and pathway analysis on male and female
placentas from HDP and normotensive (NT) pregnancies.
Methods: The EPOCH (Effect of Preeclampsia on Cardiovascular Health)
study enrolled women with new onset HDP [preeclampsia (PE) and
gestational hypertension (gHTN) or a NT pregnancy]. Placental tissues
from the peripheral and central regions of the CV and BP were used. Bulk
RNA sequencing was performed on 25 male (HDP = 15 (11 PE and 4
gHTN), NT = 10) and 27 female placentas (HDP = 12 (10 PE and 2 gHTN),
NT = 15). DESeq2 was implemented to identify differentially expressed
genes (DE) adjusting for gestational age. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis
was conducted to determine Gene Ontology (GO) terms and KEGG
pathways enriched in HDP compared to NT. Analyses were performed
using R and Python. Significance was set to padj < 0.05.
Results: 182 DE genes were noted in the CV of male HDP placentas,
compared to 85 in females. 14 DE genes were noted in BP of males, while
only 5 were in females, likely due to the maternal decidual contribution.
DE gene profiles were distinct between males and females with only
2 genes (PSG7 and RRAD) overlapped in CV and 1 gene (PSG7) in
BP. Notably, PSG7 was universally upregulated in CV and BP in both
males and females. Pathway analysis revealed significant upregulation
of immune related processes (ERK1/ERK2 cascade, immune regulation,
leukocyte activation), cellular components (specific granules, plasma
membrane), and molecular functions (cytokine and immune receptor
activity) in male HDP placentas. KEGG Pathway analysis revealed that
cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and chemokine signaling pathways
were also enriched in male HDP placentas. In the BP region, male HDP
placentas showed significant enrichment in immune-related processes,
particularly those associated with inflammation and chemotaxis. In CV
region of female HDP placentas, spliceosome and protein processing
pathways were highly upregulated indicating that regulatory and metabolic
pathways maybe more involved in HDP pathology in females.
Conclusion: The placental pathophysiology of HDP is different between
male and female, with male placentas showing a stronger upregulation of
immune and inflammatory pathways. Also, different genes are regulated in
CV and BP regions. Hence sex as well as region-specific variations need
to be accounted for in studies dissecting HDP pathogenesis.
T-113
Gestational Diabetes Mellitus Alters Mitochondrial Dynamics and ER
Stress Response during Trophoblast Differentiation. Leena Kadam,
Tawater Ethan, Myatt Leslie∗. Oregon Health & Science University,
Portland, OR, United States.
Introduction: Cytotrophoblast (CT) differentiation to syncytiotrophoblast
(ST) in humans involves several metabolic shifts to accomplish functional
changes in nutrient uptake and hormone production. Mitochondrial energy
production supports these changes. Mitochondrial function is intricately
linked to their structure and their interaction with ER plays a key role in
how cells cope with metabolic disorders. We have previously reported
a sexually dimorphic reduction in trophoblast mitochondrial respiration
and increased oxidative stress with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM).
In the present study, we determined if GDM is associated with disruption
in the balance of mitochondrial fusion and fission and with ER stress.
Methods: Primary human cytotrophoblast cells (CT) (n=3-5 per sex, per
group) were isolated at term from lean (LN, pre-pregnancy BMI=18.5-
24.9,) and obese with type A2GDM (GDM; BMI=30-45) pregnancies and
140A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
allowed to differentiate to syncytiotrophoblast (ST) over 72hr. Expression
of mitochondrial fusion and fission mediators and ER stress markers was
assessed at 24 and 72hrs by qPCR.
Results: Trophoblast from LN placentas had a significantly higher
OPA1:DRP1 ratio in both CT and ST suggesting a bias towards fusion
which was absent in GDM trophoblast implying a shift towards
mitochondrial fission. Mitochondrial stress due to altered structural
dynamics has been shown to induce ATF4 expression, as part of the
endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response (UPR). ATF4 is thus
a converging point for mitochondrial and ER stress and regulates its
downstream targets CHOP, a key regulator of apoptosis activation via
the mitochondrial pathway, and GADD34, a sensor of ER stress induced
UPR, and promotes translation of key protective proteins. Expression
of both ATF4 (p=0.056) and GADD34 (p=0.03) were lower in CT from
GDM vs CT from LN placentas. As CT differentiated to ST, expression of
ATF4 declined (NS) in LN , but increased in GDM trophoblast (p=0.03),
suggesting activation of the ER stress-related UPR in GDM. Fetal sexstratified
analysis showed that increase of ATF4 in GDM was mainly
driven by that occurring in female trophoblast (p=0.002). Similarly,
expression of GADD34 declined in LN ST vs CT (p=0.001), but there
was no change in GDM and no fetal sex-based effects. Expression of
CHOP was not different in ST vs CT in both groups in the sex combined
analysis, but female CT from both groups had higher expression vs the
respective male CT (p=0.002 for LN, p=0.006 for GDM), and showed a
decrease in ST vs CT (p=0.01 for LN, p=0.02 for GDM). This decrease
was absent in males.
Conclusion: Our results indicate that upon differentiation GDM
trophoblast activate the ATF4 - GADD34 mediated ER stress pathway in
a sexually dimorphic manner to potentially counteract the metabolic and
mitochondrial stress while preventing cellular apoptosis indicated by no
changes in CHOP expression.
T-114
Regulation and Dynamics of IL-10 Production in Placental Tissue.
Taylor A Snisky,1 Caroline Smith†,2 Christina Megli.2,1 1Magee-Womens
Research Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, United States; 2University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, PA, United States.
Introduction: Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a cytokine crucial for regulating
immune responses, produced mainly by immune cells, such as T cells,
B cells, and macrophages. It is known to be a vital part of the immune
system, for its key role in limiting inflammation and suppressing
immune reactions. As an anti-inflammatory molecule, IL-10 helps to
suppress excessive immune reactions that can lead to tissue damage
and autoimmune disorders. IL-10 responses are increased in pregnancy.
We have demonstrated that secreted products of chorionic villi can
regulate myeloid cell function. Here, we sought to determine if placental
characteristics could alter chorionic villi-macrophage signaling.
Methods: We generated placental- conditioned macrophages by
exposing THP-1 derived macrophages to conditioned media generated
from culturing chorionic villi placental explants. Fresh human placental
biopsies were obtained through the Steven C. Caritis MOMI biobank
from placentas delivered through cesarean section, in the absence of
labor, ruptured membranes, maternal diabetes, and congenital anomalies.
Gestational age, placental sex and indication for delivery were collected.
Chorionic villi were then dissected and used to generate conditioned media
(CM) through 24-hour incubations in DMEM, 10% FBS, 1% Penicillin
Streptomycin, and collecting the supernatants. IL-10 was verified to
be absent in CM through ELISA. CM was then incubated with THP-
1derived macrophages to generate placental conditioned macrophages.
Supernatants were then collected and used to preform ELISAs. IL-10
production by placental conditioned macrophages was compared by
placental and delivery characteristics. Macrophage controls included
THP-1 derived macrophages exposed to IFNγ and LPS and IL-4/TGFβ.
Results: Placental conditioned macrophages leads to robust production
of IL-10 exceeding controls. IL-10 production in placental conditioned
macrophages was higher at earlier gestational ages in comparison to
term. IL-10 production did not differ by placental sex. When stratified
by indication for delivery, placental conditioned macrophages generated
from CM associated with hypertensive disorders or pregnancy or growth
restriction produced less IL-10 and had no difference across gestational
age.
Conclusion: Our data demonstrate that chorionic villi signal to
macrophages to produce IL-10 in a gestational age dependent manner and
that this signaling is altered with placental insufficiency. Future studies
looking at the levels of IL-10 production by circulating myeloid cells are
warranted to identify if this may serve as a marker of placental health.
T-115
Transmigration of Maternal and Fetal Myeloid Cells is Associated with
Placental Malaria and Birth Weight. Nida Ozarslan†,1 Johnie Ategeka,2
Corina Mong,1 Christine A. Blauvelt,1 Jimmy Kizza,2 Abel Kakuru,2 Moses
R Kamya,2 Philip J Rosenthal,1 Prasanna Jagannathan,3 Grant Dorsey,1
Stephanie L Gaw.1 1University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco,
CA, United States; 2Infectious Diseases Research Collaboration, Kampala,
Uganda; 3Stanford University, Stanford, CA, United States.
Introduction: Placental malaria (PM) is characterized by the accumulation
of Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes (iRBC) in the placental
intervillous space (IVS). This leads to hemozoin (Hz) deposition and
placental damage, even after successful treatment and parasite clearance.
Maternal and fetal monocytes/macrophages (Mø) play an important role
in the placental inflammatory response to pathogens.
Methods: To investigate the spatial distribution and activation phenotypes
of Mø in the context of active (where iRBCs are present in IVS) vs.
past (where Hz, but not iRBCs, is present) PM, we performed multiplex
fluorescent in situ hybridization (RNAscope HiPlex v2) to detect mRNA
encoding CD68 (pan- Mø marker), CD163 (anti-inflammatory M2 Mø
marker), FOLR2 (tissue resident macrophage marker- fetal Hofbauer cells
(HBCs)), and KRT7 (trophoblast marker) in human placental biopsies.
Results: In the maternal IVS, the densities of maternal M1 (proinflammatory)
Mø (FOLR2-CD163-), maternal M2 (anti-inflammatory)
Mø (FOLR2-CD163+) and fetal M2 HBCs (FOLR2+CD163+) showed
a 3-, 3-, and 4-fold increase, respectively, in active compared to past PM
(p<0.05). The density of M2 HBCs (FOLR2+CD163+) in the IVS was
positively correlated with greater Hz deposition in the placenta (r= 0.55,
p<0.05). In the fetal placental villi (PV), the density of maternal M1 Mø
was increased 5-fold in past compared to active PM (p<0.05). Linear
regression analysis revealed that infant birth weight was negatively
correlated with higher densities of maternal M1 Mø in the IVS (p<0.05)
and maternal M2 Mø in the PV (p<0.01), suggesting that these cell
populations have a negative impact on fetal growth.
Conclusion: Our results show that with active PM, fetal M2 HBCs
transmigrate into the IVS, alongside both M1 and M2 maternal Mø that
are recruited from peripheral circulation. In past PM, maternal M1 Mø
were identified within the fetal PV. These findings suggest that divergent
maternal vs. fetal Mø responses to iRBC and Hz deposits within the IVS
result in maternal-fetal microchimerism and may mediate perturbations
of fetal growth in pregnancies complicated by PM.
T-116
YTHDC1 Determinates the Derivation and Lineage Specification of
Human Trophoblast Stem Cells. Jiaqi Liu†,1 Ping Liu,1 Qifan Jiang,1
Yongli Shan,2 Stephen J Lye,3,4,4 Yanxing Wei∗.3,5,6 1Nanfang Hospital,
Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China; 2Guangzhou Institutes
of Biomedicine and Health, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou,
China; 3Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Sinai Health System,
Toronto, ON, Canada; 4University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada;
5Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China; 6Shool of Basic Medical
Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
Introduction: Trophoblast stem cells < TSCs> contribute to the formation
of the placenta which is essential for embryonic and fetal development
during pregnancy. Impaired development of TSCs at an early stage
might underlie the pathogenesis of pregnancy-related diseases, such as
preeclampsia, and placenta accreata. Recently, the RNA methylation
modification m6A and its regulated protein have been reported to be
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 141A
important in cell fate determination in various diseases. However, the
role and molecular mechanisms of their participation in trophoblast stem
cell fate decisions remain poorly known.
Methods: Here, we reveal that YTHDC1, an intranuclear reader protein
recognizing the m6A modification, determines the derivation of human
TSCs from human embryonic stem cells < hESCs > and its specification
toward extravillous cytotrophoblasts < EVTs>.
Results: YTHDC1 deficiency remarkably enhances the efficiency of
generating hTSCs from hESCs. YTHDC1-deficient TSCs maintain
self-renewal and differentiation toward syncytiotrophoblasts, but fail
to differentiate toward EVTs. Mechanistically, YTHDC1 interacts with
H3K27 methyltransferase, EZH2 and co-localizes at gene loci essential
for trophoblast development in hESCs. YTHDC1 impairment results
in a decrease in EZH2 and H3K27me3 enrichment and the reopening
of chromatin accessibility at these trophoblast development genes.
Interestingly, the phenotype of TSCs was rescued by wild-type YTHDC1
but not mutant YTHDC1 at m6A recognition sites.
Conclusion: Together, these findings reveal the requirement of YTHDC1
in specifying hTSCs and EVT cells and highlight the contribution of
the crosstalk between RNA modification and histone modification in
trophoblast stem cell fate decisions.
T-117
Maternal Obesity Impacts Placenta Function Through Activation of
ER Stress and Epigenetic Dysregulation. Wei-Bin Shen,1 Katherine
Goetzinger,1 Ruofang Yao,2 E. Albert Reece,1 Peixin Yang∗.1 1University
of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States; 2Loma
Linda University Medical Center, Loma Linda, CA, United States.
Introduction: Maternal obesity is associated with a variety of obstetrical
outcomes including stillbirth, preeclampsia, and gestational diabetes, and
increases the risk of fetuses for congenital heart defects. Obesity during
pregnancy represents a major contribution to metabolic dysregulation
which plays a key role in the pathogenesis of adverse outcome. However,
the mechanism associating such an obesogenic metabolic environment and
adverse pregnancy outcomes has remained poorly understood.
Methods: In this study, by using varied approaches including
immunocytochemistry staining, Western blot, RT-qPCR, and ELISA,
we aimed to investigate the ER stress and epigenetic dysregulation in
placentas from obese pregnant women following delivery by Caesareansection
at term.
Results: We found that maternal obesity activates endoplasmic reticulum
(ER) stress/unfolded protein response in the placenta by upregulated
p-IRE1α and XBP1s signaling, and UPR chaperone gene expression.
Activated ER stress may induce DNA and RNA dysregulation and impact
nutrition transportation crossing the placenta. In obese pregnancy, the
levels of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) were significantly increased coupled
with decreased activity of Ten-Eleven Translocation (TETs) enzymes that
principally function by oxidizing 5mC. Down-regulated levels of m6A
along with reduced gene expression of WTAP, RBM15B, and KIAA1429,
the components of the RNA methylation writer. Furthermore, obesity
induces the loss of polarization of lactate transporter MCT4 expression in
placental syncytiotrophoblast which leads to disruption of unidirectional
lactate transport from the fetal to the maternal compartment may constitute
part of mechanisms linking maternal obesity and pathogenesis of stillbirth.
Conclusion: Our findings represent the first step in understanding of
ER signaling pathways, epigenetic dysregulation, and lactate transporter
in placental pathophysiology affected by obesity, which may be an
important mechanism accounting for the observed higher maternal and
perinatal risks.
T-118
Unraveling the Molecular Pathway of Insulin-Producing Cells Derived
from Placenta Mesenchymal Stem Cells via Multi-Omics Analysis. Jie
Xu, Shen Xinggui, Yang Gu, David F. Lewis, Dani Zoorob, Wang Yuping∗.
LSU Health Shreveport, Shreveport, LA, United States.
Introduction: Generating insulin-producing cells (Ins-PCs) is a promising
therapeutic approach to treat diabetes. Placenta-derived mesenchymal
stem cells (P-MSCs) have unique immunosuppressive, pluripotent, and
differentiation properties, making them be an invaluable resource of
Ins-PCs for the future cell-based therapy. The purpose of this study is
to generate Ins-PCs from human P-MSCs and to elucidate the cellular
and molecular pathways that are involved in the differentiation process
through proteomics and RNA sequencing analysis.
Methods: MSCs were isolated from human term placentas. IRB approval
was obtained. Differentiation of P-MSCs to Ins-PCs was induced by
applying miR-181a-5p mimics. Expression of C-peptide and insulin
(markers of Ins-PCs) was determined by immunofluorescent staining.
Insulin production was measured by ELISA. Undifferentiated P-MSCs
served as paired control. Total cellular protein and RNA was extracted and
processed for proteomic assay and RNA sequencing, respectively. LCMS/
MS was carried out on an Orbitrap Exploris 480 Mass Spectrometer
coupled with Dionex UltiMate 3000 RSLC nano system. Total RNA
sequencing was performed on an Illumina NovaSeq 6000 and primary
analysis was conducted using NovaSeq Control Software. Differentially
expressed proteins or genes were identified based on fold change >2 and
p<0.05. Functional enrichment in biological processes and pathways were
analyzed by STRING online database.
Results: Expression of C-peptide and insulin, and insulin production
were significantly increased in differentiated Ins-PCs cells. PCA
analysis revealed significant differences both in proteomic profiles and
transcriptional profiles between Ins-PCs and control P-MSCs. Proteomics
analysis identified 421 differentially expressed proteins, including 252
upregulated and 169 downregulated in Ins-PCs vs. control P-MSCs.
STRING analysis further revealed pathways such lysosome and glycan
degradation were significantly upregulated, while pathways such
as cell cycle and condensation of prometaphase chromosomes were
significantly downregulated in the differentiated Ins-PCs. RNA sequencing
analysis identified 732 upregulated and 871 downregulated genes in the
differentiated Ins-PCs. Upregulated genes were associated with several
pathways, such MAPK signaling, Rap1 signaling, Hippo signaling, and
Notch signaling, etc. Downregulated genes were involved in pathways
related extracellular matrix organization, EML4 and NUDC in mitotic
spindle formation, activation of NIMA Kinases NEK9, NEK6, and NEK7.
Conclusion: Our study deciphers key biological process and pathways
that are associated with insulin production in differentiated P-MSCs using
multi-omics analysis, which provides further evidence that P-MSCs are
a rich source of Ins-PCs.
T-119
Exploring the Role of Extracellular Matrix Proteins in Maintaining
Cytotrophoblast Progenitor Niche Dynamics Throughout Pregnancy.
Olivier Schaffers†,1 Bas B Van Rijn∗.2 1Erasmus MC, Rotterdam,
Netherlands; 2Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven,
Netherlands.
Introduction: This study investigates the role of the basal lamina and
other extracellular matrix (ECM) factors as part of a potential niche for
cytotrophoblast (CTB) cells within placental villi. Placental villi from
both first-trimester and term placentas were decellularized, and their
protein content was analyzed via mass spectrometry. Decellularization
was confirmed by hematoxylin and eosin staining, and DNA quantification
demonstrated the removal of most cells. Proteomic profiling of ECM
components revealed common basal lamina proteins, including various
collagens, laminins, and fibronectin.
Methods: To explore gestation-related differences in ECM composition
and potential niche-related factors, we profiled the full set of proteins
identified across all samples of first-trimester and/or term decellularized
villi. The majority of the proteins identified (2043; 77.5%) overlapped
between both gestational timepoints, with 487 and 105 unique proteins
identified in first-trimester and term decellularized villi, respectively.
Results: Functional enrichment analysis revealed distinct roles for
the unique proteins, with early-gestation proteins linked to metabolic
processes and later-stage proteins associated with TNF signaling and
atherosclerosis.Furthermore, we assessed differences in the proteins shared
between decellularized villi of both gestational timepoints. Of the 2043
shared proteins, 674 were differentially abundant (≥2-fold, p < 0.05) in
first-trimester samples compared to 357 in term samples. Among the top 20
142A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
differentially abundant proteins, several classic ECM proteins were more
abundant in term samples, including lumican (LUM), biglycan (BGN), and
laminins LAMA4 and LAMC3. Notably, HMGA1, a regulator of stemness
and self-renewal, was significantly more abundant in decellularized villi
from term placentas, suggesting its role in maintaining the CTB progenitor
niche during later pregnancy.
Conclusion: Comparison of first trimester and third trimester proteomic
profiling of cytotrophoblast villi suggests of a key role for ECM protein
secretion in maintaining CTB progenitor cell dynamics throughout
pregnancy.
T-120
Evidence of Low Rates of Placental Pathology in a Low-Risk Pregnancy
Cohort. Elizabeth K Wood†, Hanna C Gustafsson, Terry Morgan, Jamie O
Lo∗, Elinor L Sullivan∗. Oregon Health & Science University, Portland,
OR, United States.
Introduction: The placenta plays a critical role in pregnancy and neonatal
health outcomes. Establishing normative placental histology in healthy
pregnancies is important to avoid under- or over-diagnosis of pathologic
findings. Limited reports describe the frequency and type of placental
pathology in healthy pregnancies using histology. The objective of our
study was to assess placental histology in healthy pregnancies to further
examine the rates of pathologic findings in a low-risk sample.
Methods: We evaluated placental pathology in a low-risk cohort (N = 209
placentas; 49% male fetal sex; 73% White, non-Hispanic; mean maternal
age: 32.71 +/- 4.23 weeks; mean gestational age (GA): 39.29 +/- 1.67
weeks) with relatively low prevalence of pregnancy complications (10%
pre-eclampsia, 10% gestational diabetes mellitus, 4% placenta previa,
2% intrauterine growth restriction). Sections from the central regions
of the placenta were biopsied and stained with hemoyxlin and eosin.
An experienced pathologist conducted histological analyses, analyzing
two sections per case. Analyses were conducted in duplicate with a onemonth
washout (intra-rater reliability: kappa = 0.92). Maternal medical
records were reviewed for evidence of pregnancy complications. Logistic
regression assessed predictors of placental pathology, including any
pregnancy complication, fetal sex, GA at birth, maternal race/ethnicity,
and maternal age.
Results: Most placental weights (78%) were within normal size ranges
(SGA: 9%, LGA 11%, Very LGA: 2%). Histologic analysis showed
relatively low rates of pathology overall (23%), with 90% of samples
displaying normal villous maturity (immature: 3%, accelerated age:
7%) and low incidences of chorangiosis (1%), infarctions (9%),
chorioamnionitis (5%), and chronic villitis (3%). Logistic regression
results suggest that lower GA (OR = 0.51) and older maternal age (OR
= 1.10) are significantly associated with increased odds of placental
pathology. No associations were found for fetal sex or the presence of
pregnancy complications.
Conclusion: Findings indicate relatively low rates of pathology in lowrisk
pregnancies. Accurately identifying placental pathology in low-risk
pregnancies is crucial for understanding the role of placental health in
neonatal outcomes, particularly as attempts are made to identify placental
contributions to fetal programming of developmental outcomes.
T-121
Chemogenetic Trophoblast Activation of the Placenta Alters Maternal
Circulating EV Population and Concentration. Geoffrey Dunn†, Tracy
Bale∗. University of Colorado, Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO,
United States.
Introduction: Despite current modern technologies, morbidity and
mortality during pregnancy remains high. Many comorbidities such as
gestational diabetes are associated with poor outcomes in both maternal
health and fetal development. We currently lack a comprehensive
understanding of causal mechanisms that underly maternal risk during
pregnancy. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are highly dynamic biological
nanoparticles important for cell-to-cell communication and are secreted
by all tissues in mammals. Throughout pregnancy, concentrations of EVs
steadily rise, and this increase is attributed to placental EV secretion.
Previous work by our group and others suggests that EVs during
pregnancy are important in regulating homeostatic processes such as
glucose sensitivity and timing of labor initiation. However, a precise
mechanistic understanding of EV secretion, transport, and uptake at target
cell locations during pregnancy has not been fully elucidated. Therefore,
we developed a novel mouse model utilizing a chemogenetic approach in
which transgenic mice expressing DREADD Gq in Cyp19 positive cells
of the placenta allows for trophoblast cell activation in pregnant mice
at specified times during pregnancy. We hypothesized that activating
trophoblast cells through this calcium dependent mechanism would
increase EV secretion into maternal circulation. Further, as microvesicles
(a specific type of EV) are the predominant EV type released through a
calcium-dependent signaling pathway, we hypothesized that this calciumdependent
mechanism in trophoblasts would shift circulating plasma EV
size larger on average.
Methods: At E15.5 DREADD Gq+ (n=5) and Wild-type control (n=6)
dams were fed a cookie dough treat containing 1 mg/kg of CNO and
euthanized 15 minutes after ingestion. Fetal tail DNA was collected for
genotyping and sexing. Maternal blood plasma was collected via cardiac
puncture and processed by size exclusion chromatography to isolate EVs.
EV concentration, size, and zeta-potential was analyzed using nanoparticle
tracking analysis.
Results: We found that DREADD Gq+ dams had significantly reduced
maternal EV concentration compared to WT controls (t=2.682, df=9,
p<0.05). However, no change in EV size (p=0.56) or zeta-potential
(p=0.97) was detected. Interestingly, we found a significant interaction
effect of EV concentration in Gq+ dams and the composition of litter sex.
Gq+ litters containing more male fetuses were associated with reduced
EV concentration (R2 = 0.8441, p<0.05), while WT controls with more
male fetuses were associated with increased concentration (R2 = 0.9423,
p<0.05).
Conclusion: While these results do not fully support to our initial
hypotheses, additional studies as to timing of calcium activation and
effect on EV secretion are necessary to determine the timing and types
of EV released from trophoblast cells and how they may be impacted by
fetal placental sex.
T-122
Evaluation of E-Cigarette Liquid Components on Trophoblast Gene
Expression. Margeaux Wetendorf Marbrey∗, Rennica Huang. Duke
University School of Medicine, Durham, NC, United States.
Introduction: 15% of pregnant women use electronic nicotinic delivery
systems (ENDS) or e-cigarettes as a perceived safer alternative to
cigarettes. Yet, our knowledge regarding the safety of ENDS use during
pregnancy is limited. ENDS heat and aerosolize an inhaled base liquid
containing a variety of additives including flavoring and nicotine. To
establish the placenta, extravillous trophoblast cells migrate through the
maternal tissue to re-establish the vasculature into high-capacity vessels
to support nutrient and waste exchange. This occurs via coordinated
signaling of cell cycle-dependent growth, angiogenesis, hypoxic response,
and reactive oxygen species accumulation. Failed signaling can lead to
hypertensive disorders of pregnancy including preeclampsia. We have
determined in mice that ENDS with flavoring causes a reduction in embryo
to placental weight ratios. Yet, we do not know which ENDS components
impair the developing placenta. We hypothesized that increased ENDS
additives correlates with impaired trophoblast cell gene expression.
Methods: To test this hypothesis, we generated ENDS liquid condensates
containing different levels of additives. First, a base liquid (BL) containing
a 70:30 ratio of propylene glycol to vegetable glycerine was generated
and 0.6% nicotine was added (BLN). We then acquired commercial
ENDS liquids with strawberry custard flavor (BLF) and with nicotine
(BLFN). All treatment liquids were vaporized with a Joyetech Mini at
65 Watts, at 250ºC and condensed in a series of cold collection tubes to
mimic aerosolized components that condense in the blood. Cells were
treated with all conditions at 1.5% for 6 hours before RNA isolation and
qRT-PCR analysis (n=3).
Results: Trophoblast cells treated with ENDS liquid condensates exhibited
variable responses. Adrenomedullin (Adm), a placental angiogenic peptide,
was downregulated in all conditions except for the BL condition, with
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 143A
the lowest expression found in the BLFN group. Contrastingly, placental
growth factor (Pgf) was upregulated in all groups besides BL, with the
strongest upregulation in the BLF group. We examined cyclin-dependent
kinase inhibitor 1a (Cdkn1a), known to inhibit the cell cycle. We found
Cdkn1a was increased in the BLF group, specifically. Finally, thioredoxin
reductase 1 (Txnrd1), an important reductase in response to oxidative
stress, was upregulated in flavor-containing groups.
Conclusion: ENDS condensates with flavoring exhibited the strongest
effects on trophoblast cell gene expression. Interestingly, the most
profound responses occurred in the absence of nicotine, suggesting the
flavoring mediates these deficits. Future directions include examination
of trophoblast invasion and transcriptomic differences upon exposure to
ENDS condensates. These data suggest ENDS exposure elicits a variable
gene expression response which may perturb trophoblast function and
subsequent placental development.
T-123
The Placental Transcriptome Remains Perturbed Below the Minimum
Fetal Betamethasone Exposure Necessary to Mature the Preterm Ovine
Lung. Erin L Fee†,1 Haruo Usuda,1 Sean WD Carter,2 Hideyuki Ikeda,3
Yusaku Kumagai,2 Hannah RS Watson,1 Binny P Sesurajan,2 Masatoshi
Saito,3 Sebastian E Illanes,4 Mahesh A Choolani,2 Alan H Jobe,5 Matthew
W Kemp.2 1University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia; 2National
University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; 3Tohoku University
Hospital, Sendai, Japan; 4Universidad de los Andes, Santiago, Chile;
5University of Cincinnati School of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, United
States.
Introduction: Current high-dose antenatal corticosteroid (ACS) regimens
alter placental development and vascular resistance, in association with
reduced fetal growth. We aimed to determine if adverse changes in the
placental transcriptome persisted at and below minimum fetal ACS
exposures necessary for preterm lung maturation.
Methods: Groups were comprised of ewes carrying a single fetus (n=6 /
group; 3 male, 3 female) delivered at 123 ± 2 days’ gestation, ventilated for
30 minutes to assess lung maturation, and euthanized. Group (i) ewes had
two intramuscular (IM) injections of 0.25 mg/kg betamethasone separated
by 24 hours, simulating clinical dosing. Group (ii) animals had IM saline
injections only. Group (iii-v) animals had 48 hour fetal intravenous (IV)
betamethasone infusions (via surgically implanted catheter) targeting
plasma levels of either: 2 ng/mL (minimal exposure for lung maturation);
1 ng/mL, or 0.5 ng/mL. Group (vi) infusion control animals had 48 hour
fetal IV saline infusions. Placental tissue was collected for bulk RNA
sequencing (Fold Change >1.5 and FDR < 0.05 significant). Plasma
and placental betamethasone concentrations were analyzed by liquid
chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Ventilation and plasma
betamethasone data for these animals have been reported previously.
Results: Maximal lung maturation occurred at a 2 ng/mL fetal plasma
betamethasone and degraded at lower concentrations. 2109 transcripts
were differentially expressed in the Group (i) clinical dose animals.
Group iii-v animals in the 2, 1 and 0.5 ng/mL infusion groups had 2052,
408, and 498 differentially expressed genes, respectively and key KEGG
processes including DNA replication and nucleocytoplasmic transport
remained significantly suppressed. Placental transport solute carrier genes
including SLC4A10, SLC7A3, SLC36A3, SLC46A1 and SLC6A3 were
significantly down regulated in the 2 ng/mL group (p<0.005).
Conclusion: Large, pathology-associated perturbations of the ovine
placental transcriptome persisted at and below the minimum fetal steroid
exposure necessary for lung maturation. These data suggest that it is
not possible to adequately dose for lung maturation without disrupting
placental gene expression.
T-124
Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor 1 is Internalized by Endothelial Cells
via Macropinocytosis to Evade Degradation and Promote Endothelial
Dysfunction. Molly McAdow, Gjina Ahmetaj†, Rachel Hauschel†, Anne
Eichmann, William Sessa∗. Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Plasminogen activator inhibitor1 (PAI1) is a biomarker of
preeclampsia, yet a direct mechanistic role is unknown. Recently, we found
that exogenous PAI1 directly interacts with and inhibits endothelial nitric
oxide synthase (eNOS), supporting a direct pathophysiologic role for PAI1
in endothelial dysfunction. However, how PAI1, a secreted protein, enters
endothelial cells is unknown. Our objective was to identify the mechanism
by which PAI1 is internalized, evades degradation, and traffics to eNOS.
Methods: PAI1 with a C-terminal hemagglutinin tag was cloned and
expressed in COS7 cells to track PAI1 endocytosis. PAI1-HA was
added to human umbilical vein endothelial cells in culture. Endocytic
pathways were blocked with small interfering RNAs and inhibitors,
and endocytosis was measured by semiquantitative Western blotting
and immunofluorescence microscopy. All experiments were conducted
in triplicate and performed at least three independent times. T-tests and
ANOVA were used as appropriate.
Results: PAI1-HA is internalized by endothelial cells culture through an
energy-dependent manner and persists in the cell for at least 6 hours. Entry
is independent of clathrin-mediated endocytosis and caveoli, two classic
endocytotic pathways. Silencing LRP1 and uPAR, cell surface receptors
for PAI1/tPA complex, did not reduce PAI1-HA internalization. PAI1-HA
is internalized in large vesicles, is inhibited by amiloride and nocodazole,
and is partially dependent on CDC42, consistent with macropinocytosis.
Conclusion: PAI1-HA is internalized by macropinocytosis and evades
degradation, permitting eNOS inhibition. Blocking PAI1 entry may
represent a novel therapeutic strategy in endothelial dysfunction in
preeclampsia.
T-125
Sexually Dimorphic Regulation of MiR-29a/c-3p in Human Endothelial
Cells. Si-yan Zhang†,1 Chi Zhou,2 Jing Zheng.1 1University of Wisconsin-
Madison, Madison, WI, United States; 2University of Arizona, Tucson,
AZ, United States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is a leading cause of maternal and
fetal morbidity and mortality and is characterized by a wide spectrum
of maternal and fetal endothelial dysfunction. Although the etiology
of PE remains unknown, dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) in
endothelial cells is believed to be one of mechanisms underlying PE. We
have reported that two members of miR-29 family, miR-29a-3p and miR-
29c-3p (miR-29a/c-3p) are downregulated in both female and male PEhuman
umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), whereas knockdown
of miR-29a/c-3p differently regulates the cellular function in female and
male HUVECs. Bioinformatic analysis shows that miR-29a/c-3p target
Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-A (VEGFA) and Fibroblast Growth
Factor (FGF) signaling cascades. Herein, we tested the hypothesis that
knockdown of miR-29a/c-3p disrupts transcriptome in HUVECs in a cell
sex-specific manner, leading to cell dysfunction.
Methods: MiR-29a/c-3p were downregulated by treating female and
male HUVECs with miR-29c-3p inhibitors, followed by RNA-seq and
bioinformatic analyses. MiR-29a/c-3p-regulated VEGFA- and FGF2-
stimulated cell migration and cell proliferation were also assessed.
Results: Compared with negative control, miR-29c-3p inhibitor knocked
down 96% of miR-29a/c-3p in HUVECs at 24 hours and remained at this
low level up to 72 hours. RNA-seq revealed that knockdown of miR-
29a/c-3p differentially disrupted altered transcriptomic profiles between
female and male HUVECs: up-regulating 152 genes and down-regulating
136 genes in females, while up-regulating 23 genes and down-regulating
40 genes in males. Functional enrichment analyses showed that these
miR-29a/c-3p-regulated genes were differently associated with heart,
angiogenesis, and immunology in female and male HUVECs. Knockdown
of miR-29a/c-3p also inhibited VEGFA-stimulated migration of male
HUVECs but slightly increased VEGFA-stimulated migration of female
HUVECs.
144A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Conclusion: MiR-29a/c-3p differentially regulate transcriptomes in
female and male HUVCEs which may alter endothelial responses to
VEGFA and FGF2. These MiR-29a/c-3p regulated genes and pathways
might represent promising therapeutic and fetal sex-specific targets for
PE-impaired endothelial function.
T-126
Cytokine-Induced Changes in Endothelial Cell Gene Expression May
Promote Preeclampsia via Th1 and Th17 Signaling. Luca Clemente,
Ian M Bird, Derek S Boeldt. University of Wisconsin - Madison, Madison,
WI, United States.
Introduction: Th1 and Th17 cells protect against infection during
pregnancy, but excessive Th1/Th17 cell numbers have been identified
in preeclampsia (PE). PE is associated with increased expression of
pro-inflammatory cytokines that can cause endothelial cells (EC) to
express proteins typically observed on the surface of professional antigen
presenting cells (e.g. dendritic cells). Our prior experiments have found
that incubation of human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC)
monolayers with 10 ng/mL TNFα, IL-1β, or IFNγ degrades barrier function
over a 20-hr period. We hypothesized that this degradation correlated
with EC shifting toward a “semiprofessional” immunomodulatory
phenotype, and that these cytokine-altered EC would be primed to induce
pro-inflammatory Th1 and Th17 immune cell recruitment and activation,
thereby resulting in inflammation in the endothelium and the loss of
pregnancy-adapted EC function observed in PE.
Methods: Cultured HUVEC were harvested after 20-hr incubation with
TNFα, IL-1β, IFNγ (10ng/mL), or vehicle, and subjected to analysis via
single cell RNA-Seq using the 10X Genomics platform. Cluster analysis
by Partek Flow multi-omics software found that each cell from all four
treatment groups could be placed into one of three clusters that were
defined almost exclusively by treatment: Cluster 1 comprised vehicletreated
control cells, Cluster 2—TNFα and IL1β-treated cells (which had
very similar effects on gene expression), and Cluster 3—IFNγ-treated
cells. Poisson regression was used for differential gene expression analyses
between clusters. The adjusted P value (false discovery rate) was lower
than 0.05 for all genes that exhibited a fold change of < 0.80 or > 1.25
relative to the expression level in Cluster 1.
Results: Analysis of scRNA-Seq data following treatment with TNFα
or IL-1β (Cluster 2) revealed upregulation of several genes for immune
cell attachment molecules [e.g. E-selectin (179-fold), ICAM1 (27-fold),
VCAM1 (63-fold)], genes for co-stimulation proteins [e.g. 4-1BB (20-
fold), OX40 (11-fold), ICOS-L (13-fold), TL1A (7-fold)], and chemokine
genes [e.g. CCL2, 5, 8 & 20 (15- to 61-fold) and CXCL1, 2, 3, 5, 6 & 8 (45-
to 195-fold)]. In contrast, IFNγ-treated HUVEC (Cluster 3) dramatically
upregulated CXCL9, 10 & 11 over 1000-fold, while downregulating the
genes for E-selectin, OX40, ICOS-L, and TL1A. In Cluster 2 HUVEC,
enhanced expression of genes encoding the known ligands of receptors
of each helper T cell subtype suggested the ability to recruit Th1, Th2,
Th17, and/or Treg cells (likely depending on local signaling molecule
concentrations), whereas in the cells in Cluster 3 appeared to be primed
for only Th1 or Treg interactions.
Conclusion: These data show that the inflammatory cytokines observed
in PE can upregulate immune cell costimulation and chemokine gene
expression in EC toward a phenotype associated with pro-inflammatory
Th1 and/or Th17 signaling.
T-127
Trajectory of sFlt-1 and PlGF in Individuals That Develop Pre-
Eclampsia Compared to Control Group. Logan Todhunter†. University
of Rochester, Rochester, NY, United States.
Introduction: To evaluate if there are any associations between soluble
fms-like tyrosine kinase 1 (sFlt-1) and placental growth factor (PlGF)
at multiple time points during gestation in individuals that develop
hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP).
Methods: A secondary analysis of the Understanding Pregnancy Signals
and Infant Development (UPSIDE) study that consists of 326 pregnant
people who were recruited <14 weeks gestation. The primary outcome
was the development of pre-eclampsia (pre-e) or gestational hypertension
(gHTN). Inclusion criteria: singleton pregnancy, ≥ 18 years old, English
speaking, and no substance use or psychiatric conditions. Exclusion
criteria: high risk factors for pre-e and endocrine disorders. Analytes
from each trimester and delivery were compared in individuals with HDP
vs. those without. Data was analyzed utilizing non-parametric statistics.
Results: Of the 326 individuals, 20 became pre-eclamptic and 27
gestational hypertensive. Two individuals were in both cohorts. In the third
trimester, the median sFlt-1 in those that developed pre-e was 162.4ng/ml
compared to 123.5ng/ml in control group (p=0.038). The median PlGF in
people who developed pre-e was 67.7pg/ml compared to control cohort
was 147.6pg/ml (p < 0.001). Additionally, PlGF was significantly different
at time of delivery in pre-e compared to control cohort, 57.7pg/ml verses
105.8pg/ml, respectively (p= 0.006). In patients with gHTN that did not
develop pre-e, there was no significant difference in sFlt-1 or PlGF. The
median third trimester sFlt-1 in the gHTN group was 3.3ng/ml compared
to 3.6ng/ml in control group (p= 0.22). The median PlGF was 7.7pg/ml
compared to 9.3pg/ml in control group (p= 0.49).
Conclusion: These results suggest that sFlt-1 and PlGF as prognostic
indicators pertains only to the third trimester, and we cannot rely on
these markers as early predictors of pre-e before 28 weeks of gestation.
T-128
Clustering Analysis for the Assessment of Clinical Observability Among
Etiological Subtypes of Preeclampsia. Ana Patricia Balbon. University
of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Introduction: Preeclampsia is a pregnancy complication affecting
approximately 4 million women worldwide each year, and is the cause
of >70,000 maternal deaths annually. However, beyond the unifying
diagnostic criteria of hypertension and the onset of impaired renal, liver,
or neurological function, there is immense heterogeneity in maternal and
fetal outcomes and response to treatment. Our previous research with
molecular and histological data indicate that preeclampsia is an umbrella
diagnosis encompassing three distinct placental diseases: “maternal”
emerging from underlying maternal cardiovascular disease; “canonical”
emerging from placental dysfunction; or “immunological” emerging from
immune incompatibility with the fetus.
Methods: We repurposed patient information collected from the Screening
for Pregnancy Endpoints (SCOPE) international cohort study and sought
to apply a novel tool, Similarity Network Fusion (SNF) Metaclustering,
to refine diagnoses according to these potential subtypes, exclusively
through data at the clinical level.
Results: From this unsupervised learning approach, we found a highly
stable 3-cluster solution of PE cases. To assess cluster model validity, 1000
resamplings of 80% of the data were generated and pairwise comparisons
of the resampled solutions had a good mean adjusted Rand index (0.650),
greater than 0.5. A comparison of observations co-clustering between the
candidate solution and the resampled solutions further shows stability, with
observations mirroring the co-clustering 83.5% of the time. We observed
support for our past observations of PE etiological subtypes, detecting a
“canonical” cluster showing an alignment of low placental weight and
a high uterine artery Resistance Index with more preterm births, more
admissions to the neonatal unit, more small-for-gestational-age babies and
the highest measurements of antepartum proteinuria; an “immunological”
cluster showing an alignment of shorter length of sexual relationship with
the father and admissions to the neonatal unit; and a “maternal” cluster
showing an alignment of family history of stroke in the less severe cases,
with higher Apgar Scores and fewer admissions to the neonatal unit. In
addition, Plgf was found to be significantly lower in the canonical subtype,
while Endoglin was the lowest in the immunologic subtype.
Conclusion: Overall, our results reinforce growing evidence that
prognosis heterogeneity arises from distinct mechanisms, advancing
patient subtyping as a promising avenue for developing better targeted
diagnostic screens and treatment plans.
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 145A
T-130
Elevated Molecular Markers of Oxidative Stress in Maternal Sera
Precede Preeclampsia Onset. Colman Isaac Freel†, Cory Karasek†, Sarah
Uhm†, Rebekah Rapoza†, Paras Mishra∗, Ann Anderson-Berry∗. University
of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, United States.
Introduction: : Preeclampsia is a multi-system disorder that impacts
5-8% of all pregnancies and significantly contributes to adverse maternal
and neonatal outcomes. The etiology of preeclampsia remains unclear,
but impaired placental development is known to instigate a rise in
inflammation and oxidative stress that impacts health. Oxidative stress
promotes the formation of lipid peroxides, including 4-HNE, which
contributes to inflammation. It also activates the expression of key
inflammatory regulators, including Nrf2, which binds to the antioxidant
response element to transcribe endogenous antioxidants like SOD3.
Increases in lipid peroxides and dysregulation of Nrf2/SOD3 signaling
have been described in preeclampsia and are known to impact placental
function. However, there is a paucity of research examining changes in
oxidative stress responses before preeclampsia development in clinically
accessible samples, like maternal sera. These data can inform the
identification of biomarkers, which will enable clinicians to manage at-risk
pregnancies and improve outcomes. Our study assessed key markers of
oxidative stress as potential biomarkers for preeclampsia development. We
hypothesized that levels of 4-HNE, Nrf2, and SOD3 would be elevated in
sera from patients who later developed preeclampsia compared to those
who maintained normotension.
Methods: A total of 38 serum samples were collected from enrolled
participants at mid-pregnancy and stored at -80°C. Circulating 4-HNE
modified proteins, Nrf2, and SOD3 were quantified by western blot and
normalized to total protein. Hypertensive status at the end of pregnancy
was determined from participants’ medical records. Statistical analysis of
4-HNE, Nrf2, and SOD3 levels across hypertensive status was performed
using Kruskal-Wallis tests, and correlations between 4-HNE and Nrf2
levels were assessed by linear regression.
Results: Both 4-HNE and Nrf2 were significantly elevated (4-HNE:
p=0.029; Nrf2: p=0.007) in sera from patients who developed preeclampsia
(4-HNE/total protein=0.062; Nrf2/total protein=0.069) compared to those
who maintained normotension (4-HNE/total protein=0.037; Nrf2/total
protein=0.033). However, circulating SOD3 was not significantly elevated
(SOD3: p=0.492) in patients who developed preeclampsia (SOD3/
total protein=0.0007) compared to those who maintained normotension
(SOD3/total protein=0.0001). There was a significant linear correlation
(p<0.0001) between circulating 4-HNE and Nrf2.
Conclusion: Significant increases in circulating 4-HNE and Nrf2 highlight
their promise as biomarkers for preeclampsia development, and the
dyssynchrony of Nrf2 and SOD3 levels suggests antioxidant signaling is
a therapeutic target during the pathogenesis of preeclampsia.
T-131
Metabolomic Profiling of Plasma Samples Years Following a
Hypertensive Disorder of Pregnancy. Austin Max Gabel†, Lindsay
Cheu†, Mindy Pike, Alisa Kachikis, Stephen McCartney, Raj Shree∗.
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States.
Introduction: Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) are associated
with a 2-8 fold increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) later
in life. Preliminary studies suggest a persistent state of cardiovascular
aberration post-delivery despite resolution of HDP symptoms. A deeper
understanding of this underlying pathophysiology of cardiovascular
dysregulation and identification of putative biomarkers is needed to
inform targeted therapeutic interventions to modify the risk for later-life
CVD in this at-risk population. We quantified circulating metabolites
among individuals with and without a history of HDP, years remote
from their delivery.
Methods: We included n=22 with a history of HDP and n=43 controls
(matched for interval from last pregnancy) at a median of 4 years after
pregnancy. There were no differences in age at sample collection, time
from last delivery, maternal BMI, and rates of diabetes or chronic
hypertension. Plasma metabolite concentrations were measured using
liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy (LC-MS). Metabolite levels
were compared between groups using a two-sided Wilcoxon Rank
Sum Test with Bonferroni correction. We also compared changes in
metabolite expression as a function of time since last delivery using
Pearson correlation.
Results: Compared with controls, post-HDP samples demonstrated
significant depletion of only a small number of metabolites including
glyceraldehyde, pipecolate, and hydrocinnamic acid (all p <0.05). We did
not detect any significantly elevated metabolites in post-HDP samples.
In all, we did not detect many significant differences in metabolite
concentrations between the two groups.
Conclusion: At a median of 4 years after pregnancy, those with a history
of HDP had few significant changes in plasma metabolites, and those that
were significantly altered were not part of the same biochemical pathways.
Unlike previous data where we found several elevated CVD-associated
protein biomarkers in post-HDP samples, we did not identify a robust set
of changes of metabolites for further study. We speculate that changes
in metabolites may occur on timescales that are missed by our current
study, or that the high variability of the data may make it difficult to detect
significant changes with this sample size. Further work is needed to assess
plasma metabolite changes over different time scales following HDP.
T-132
Transcriptomic Profiling of Maternal Serum and Placentas in
Preeclampsia with and without HELLP Syndrome. Tyler Ostrander,
Marina Mochizuki, Jennifer N. Chousal, Abbas Hakim, Marni B. Jacobs,
Mariko Horii, Priyadarshini Pantham. University of California, San Diego,
La Jolla, CA, United States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE), characterized by hypertension and
proteinuria in pregnancy, is a leading cause of maternal and perinatal
death, and PE with hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets
(PE-HELLP) is classified as a severe form of PE. Extracellular RNAs
(exRNA) associated with extracellular vesicles (EVs) and other carriers
have utility as biomarkers and can shed light on the pathophysiological
mechanisms of disease processes. Little is known about the differences
in the molecular profiles of maternal serum exRNA in PE and PE-HELLP
and their potential effect on downstream placental gene expression.
We aimed to identify differentially expressed extracellular miRNAs in
maternal serum which could play a role in placental dysfunction in PE
and PE-HELLP.
Methods: We conducted transcriptomic profiling of gestational agematched
maternal serum exRNA from PE (n=10), PE-HELLP (n=9), and
normal (n=11) pregnancies using small RNA-Seq. We also conducted long
RNA-Seq on placental villous tissue collected at delivery from PE (n=14),
PE-HELLP (n=14) and normal (n=18) placentas. Pairwise comparisons
were conducted and differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNAs were
identified (FDR<0.05). The miRDB and TargetScan databases were used
to identify downstream mRNA targets of miRNAs that were increased
in pairwise comparisons.
Results: We identified exRNAs that were increased in maternal serum
from PE-HELLP vs. PE and PE-HELLP vs. normal pregnancies, including
miR-122-5p and miR-22-3p, while miR-148a-3p was increased in PE and
PE-HELLP vs. normal pregnancy. Transcriptomic analysis of placentas
revealed that >140 mRNAs were dysregulated in PE-HELLP vs. normal
placentas, and >600 mRNAs were dysregulated in PE vs. normal placentas,
but there were no significant differences in mRNA expression between
PE and PE-HELLP placentas in our cohort. Increased miR-22-3p in
PE-HELLP serum may reduce placental expression of FBN2 (fibrillin
2), which is almost exclusively expressed in the placenta and encodes
glucogenic hormone placensin. Increased expression of miR-148a-3p in
maternal serum in PE may suppress downstream expression of ESRRG
(estrogen related receptor gamma), which is reduced in PE placentas, and
RUBCN (rubicon autophagy receptor), a negative regulator of autophagy.
Conclusion: We have identified distinct exRNA profiles of maternal
serum in PE and PE-HELLP, as well as potential downstream mRNA
targets that are significantly reduced in placentas from PE and PEHELLP.
While there were no significant differences in placental mRNA
expression between PE and PE-HELLP, distinct molecular pathways
146A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
could be triggered by circulating exRNA which could play a role in the
pathophysiology of PE-HELLP, which affects multiple maternal organs
more severely than PE alone.
T-133
Evaluating the Clinical Phenome for Maternal Risk Factors and
Adverse Outcomes Associated with Preeclampsia. Catherine A Greene†,
Elizabeth A Jasper, Digna R Velez Edwards∗. Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, TN, United States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy
which may result in complications to both maternal and child health. It
affects about one in ten pregnancies in the United States, with recent rising
prevalence due to proliferation of known risk factors such as increasing
maternal age and obesity. Maternal history of PE is also an important sexspecific
risk factor for later noncommunicable disease, though existing
research into future outcomes is mostly limited to select cardiometabolic
conditions. We therefore conducted phenome-wide association studies
(PheWAS) to characterize and further explore clinical comorbidities of PE.
Methods: We constructed a large cohort of 45,373 individuals with
documented pregnancies at Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
identified through pregnancy and delivery codes in the Electronic
Health Record (EHR). This study was restricted to first pregnancies,
and those with corresponding PE diagnosis codes were classified as
PE cases (N=4,982). Using PheWAS logistic regression, we tested
associations between PE and approximately 1,800 hierarchical phecodes
representing broad categories of ICD 9/10 diagnosis codes. A temporal
component was introduced to distinguish risk factors using pre-pregnancy
phecodes (N=17,008) and later outcomes using post-pregnancy phecodes
(N=37,031). Covariates consisted of maternal age, gestational age,
delivery method, and the social deprivation index.
Results: We identified 19 pre-pregnancy and 74 post-pregnancy phecodes
significantly (p<8.94×10-05 and p<5.51×10-05, respectively) associated
with PE diagnosis in first pregnancy. The pre-pregnancy results largely
corresponded to known risk factors in the endocrine/metabolic and
circulatory disease domains, including diabetes mellitus (p=1.74×10-30,
odds ratio [OR]=4.12 [95% confidence interval=3.88-4.36]), hypertension
(p=1.86×10-26, OR=4.41 [4.13-4.68]), and obesity (p=3.06×10-15, OR=2.33
[2.12-2.54]). Findings unique to the pre-pregnancy analysis included
nausea and vomiting (p=8.82×10-06, OR=1.66 [1.44-1.88]) and potential
health hazards related to communicable diseases (p=3.97×10-06, OR=1.57
[1.38-1.76]).The top post-pregnancy results, which remained significant
after adjusting for pre-existing hypertension, similarly reflected welldocumented
conditions or treatments following PE such as hypertension
(p=4.06×10-175, OR=6.59 [6.46-6.72]), long-term use of aspirin
(p=1.86×10-30, OR=5.23 [4.95-5.50]) and renal failure (p=7.70×10-26,
OR=3.69 [3.45-3.94]). Additional results included headache syndromes,
anemias, disorders of fluid imbalance, and various immune deficiencies,
among others.
Conclusion: Through this investigation, we replicated numerous
associations in a real-world setting and gained an expanded understanding
of the risk factors and downstream comorbidities associated with PE.
T-134
Mid-Late Gestation Eplerenone Treatment Improves Maternal
Cardiovascular, but Not Fetal, Outcomes in a Mouse Model of Leptin-
Induced Preeclampsia. Elisabeth Mellott†, Desmond Moronge†, Kristin
Backer†, Gibson Cooper, Alena Cherezova, Ryan Schibalski†, Safia Ogbi,
Daria Ilatovskaya, Jessica Faulkner∗. Augusta University, Augusta, GA,
United States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) induces adverse cardiovascular
outcomes for both mother and offspring. We established a novel leptininduced
mouse model of PE that induces hypertension, endothelial
dysfunction, and fetal growth restriction, which are collectively ablated
by endothelial cell mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) deletion. However,
literature lacks preclinical evidence to use MR antagonism for PE patients.
Methods: We infused timed-pregnant Balb/c mice with saline (SHAM) or
leptin (LEP, 0.9mg/kg/day) via s.c. osmotic minipump and administered
vehicle (VEH) or eplerenone (EPL, 200mg/kg/day) from gestation day
(GD)11-18 (n=9-15). We measured mean arterial blood pressure (BP)
via radiotelemetry, vascular function in 2nd order mesenteric arteries by
wire myography, and pup/placental weights on GD18. We measured
uterine artery resistance index (UARI) via ultrasound measurement of
peak systolic and end diastolic velocities. We isolated mitochondria
from placentas via differential centrifugation, assessed morphology via
electron microscopy (EM) and used tetramethyl rhodamine methyl ester
(TMRM) dye to calculate membrane potential. Pairwise comparisons
were by student’s t-test and myography analyzed by 2-Way ANOVA w/
RM, mean±SEM (*P<0.05, **P<0.01).
Results: EPL ablated LEP-induced increases in BP (98±4 LEP-EPL vs
113±3LEP-VEH mmHg,*) and prevented LEP from decreasing vascular
relaxation responses to acetylcholine, a measure of endothelial function
(concentration-response curve, P>0.05 vs SHAM-VEH). LEP decreased
placental efficiency and pup weight, however, so also did EPL treatment as
an independent variable (pup/placenta ratio: 8.1±0.1 SHAM-VEH, 7.4±0.1
LEP-VEH, 8.1±0.2 SHAM-EPL, 6.9±0.1 LEP-EPL, *for both effect of
LEP and EPL), (pup weight: 0.73±0.007g SHAM-VEH, 0.71±0.010
LEP-VEH, 0.71±0.009 SHAM-EPL, 0.66±0.007 LEP-EPL, *for both
effect of LEP and EPL). UARI data indicates that EPL treatment increases
UARI in leptin-infused pregnant mice (0.52 LEP-VEH vs 0.60 LEP-EPL
PSV/EDV). Lastly, leptin induces placental mitochondrial dysfunction,
indicated by decreased membrane potential (1466±16.42 SHAM-VEH
vs 1353±32.48 LEP-VEH A.U/mg of protein,**) and increased signs of
mitophagy in EM slices of LEP placentas compared to SHAM. Whether
EPL alters placental mitochondrial function is ongoing.
Conclusion: Collectively, these data suggest that EPL may ablate
LEP-induced hypertension and endothelial dysfunction in PE mice.
However, EPL did not improve fetal growth in LEP-induced PE. EPL
may fail to improve placental mitochondrial dysfunction induced by leptin
potentiating an increase in UARI and potentially lower fetal blood flow.
T-135
Measurement of mCG By RIA and Steroid Hormones by LC-MS/MS
during Pregnancy in the Rhesus Macaque. Hemanta Kumar Shrestha∗,
Robinson W Goy, Amita Kapoor. University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, United States.
Introduction: Rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) are commonly used
as a model of human pregnancy; however, the hormone profiles were
established several decades ago. The current study had two aims: (1)
to profile pregnancy hormones across pregnancy using modern assay
techniques and (2) to identify hormonal milestones for gestational
progression.
Methods: Blood samples were collected from 57 pregnant rhesus
macaques on one or more occasions starting at the detection of pregnancy
until near term and from twelve non-pregnant (NP) macaques once during
the menstrual cycle. All the serum samples were assayed for macaque
chorionic gonadotropin (mCG) by RIA and eight key steroid hormones
by LC-MS/MS. The hormone levels in early pregnancy (EP) defined as
gestation weeks (GW) 4 and 5, were compared with NP luteal phase (NPL)
by unpaired t-test with Welch’s correction. Generalized Additive Model
(GAM) was applied to investigate the relationships between hormone
levels and gestational week (GW).
Results: The serum levels (ng/ml; mean ± sem) were significantly higher
in EP compared to NP-L monkeys for mCG (386.9 ± 118.6 vs 6.0 ± 0.3;
p < 0.01), progesterone (P4, 8.1 ± 1.7 vs 3.2 ± 0.5; p < 0.05), estradiol
(E2, 0.073 ± 0.01 vs 0.028 ± 0.01; p < 0.001) estrone (0.102 ± 0.01 vs
0.047 ± 0.01; p < 0.01), dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA, 19.7 ± 3.7 vs
5.5 ± 1.4; p < 0.01), androstenedione (0.54 ± 0.06 vs 0.20 ± 0.03; p <
0.001), testosterone (0.36 ± 0.06 vs 0.11 ± 0.02; p < 0.01) and cortisone
(104.4 ± 5.6 vs 43.1 ± 2.9; p < 0.0001) but not cortisol (205.5 ± 17.1
vs 258.6 ± 25.6; p > 0.05). The high steroid hormone levels in EP with
elevated mCG indicated successful establishment of pregnancy including
luteal rescue, embryo implantation, and a functional trophoblast. GAM
demonstrated dynamic patterns for all the hormones (p < 0.01 - 0.00001)
except testosterone (p > 0.05). Based on the derivatives and the confidence
intervals, mCG declined from GW 4, reached a nadir like NP-L level at
GW 7. P4 decreased from GW 5 reaching about 1 ng/ml at GW 8, after
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 147A
which it increased to NP-L levels at GW 10. E2 increased from GW 4
until GW 14, whereas estrone decreased from GW 4 to GW 6, increased
from GW 7 to GW 9, and further increased from GW 20 to GW 21.
DHEA increased gradually throughout gestation, whereas androstenedione
decreased after GW 5 to GW 10 and increased after GW 16. Cortisol
increased after GW 9 to GW 12, decreased from GW13 to GW 14, and
then after showed some fluctuations. Cortisone increased from GW 7 to
GW 8 and declined after GW 9 to GW 12. The increasing levels of P4,
E2, estrone, and cortisol and decreasing level of cortisone around midgestation
(GW 9-10) reflected luteal-placental shift.
Conclusion: This is the first report to show maternal circulating hormone
patterns as reflection of significant physiologic events during pregnancy
which may serve as hormonal milestones for gestational progression in
macaques.
T-136
Corpus Luteum Number and Hemodynamic Adaptation in Pregnancy:
The Rotterdam Periconception Cohort. Lotte W Voskamp†, Joni J
Koerts†, Rosalieke E Wiegel∗, Koen Verdonk∗, A H Jan Danser∗, Régine
PM Steegers-Theunissen∗, Melek Rousian∗. Erasmus University Medical
Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
Introduction: Different modes of conception result in varying numbers
of corpus luteum (CL) in early pregnancy, possibly influencing maternal
hemodynamic adaptation via hormonal production. Previous research
demonstrated significant differences in hypertensive disorders of
pregnancy and birthweight between women with different CL numbers.
We aimed to investigate the association between CL number and
hemodynamic adaptation to pregnancy.
Methods: This study used data from the ongoing Rotterdam Periconception
Cohort, including women in early pregnancy from 2010 to 2022. Data
on maternal characteristics, pregnancy outcomes, and blood pressure
measurements were collected from health records and study database.
Exposure groups were based on CL number, classified by conception
mode: 0 CL for programmed cycle frozen embryo transfer (FET), 1
CL for natural cycle FET and spontaneous conceptions, and >1 CL for
ovarian-stimulated fresh embryo transfers. The primary outcome was
blood pressure trajectory in pregnancy. Secondary outcomes included
uterine artery pulsatility index (PI) and resistance index (RI), measured
at 7, 9, 11, 13, 22 and 30 weeks gestational age. Linear mixed regression
models were used and adjusted for maternal age, body mass index,
smoking, parity and pre-pregnancy hypertension.
Results: The study population consisted of 1,986 women: 1,456 with 1
CL (1,292 spontaneous and 164 natural cycle FET), 457 with >1 CL and
73 with 0 CL. Adjusted mean arterial pressure during pregnancy was
significantly higher in women with 0 versus 1 CL (β +2.32 mmHg, 95% CI
[0.59 - 4.06], p=0.009), but was not different between 1 and >1 CL (β -0.29
mmHg [-1.17 - 0.59], p=0.519). This was also true for diastolic, but not for
systolic blood pressure. Uterine artery doppler indices were available for
624 women. Adjusted predicted uterine artery RI was significantly lower
in women with 0 CL compared to 1 CL, both at 11 weeks (0.70, 95% CI
[0.66-0.73] vs 0.74 [0.73-0.76], p=0.047) and at 22 weeks gestational
age (0.44 [0.42-0.47] vs 0.52 [0.51-0.53], p<0.001). In pregnancies with
>1 CL, uterine artery indices were comparable to the 1 CL group, except
for a slightly higher RI at 22 weeks (0.54 vs 0.52, p = 0.047). Restricting
the analyses to only pregnancies conceived using assisted reproductive
technologies did not change the observed effect directions.
Conclusion: In the absence of a CL, mean arterial pressure is elevated,
while uterine artery PI and RI are decreased compared to pregnancies with
1 CL. Previous studies linked these changes to reduced RAS activation and
relaxin, with the lower PI and RI reflecting a compensatory mechanism
to maintain adequate blood flow to the placenta. In future research, we
aim to explore placental vascularization to understand the link between
these changes and the higher risk of hypertensive disorders in pregnancies
without a CL.
T-137
Dynamics of Membrane Progesterone Receptors (mPRs) Throughout
the Menstrual Cycle. Jeronimo Fernando Garrido Figueroa†,1 Alicia
Quiñonero Villora,1 Andrea Palomar†,1 Roberto Yagüe†,1 Sara Morales†,1
Francisco Dominguez∗.1,2 1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance - IVI
Foundation - IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2Stanford University, Palo Alto,
CA, United States.
Introduction: Progesterone plays a pivotal role in embryo implantation
by initiating decidualization, which is crucial for establishing a receptive
endometrium and maintaining pregnancy. While progesterone exerts
its genomic effects through nuclear receptors, it also acts via poorly
understood, fast-acting non- genomic mechanisms, that may significantly
influence human reproduction (Fernandes et al., 2005; Sinreih et al., 2018).
These non-genomic mechanisms involve non-classical receptors located
on the cell surface, coupled to G proteins, including membrane progestin
receptors (mPRs) and P4 receptor membrane components (PGRMC;
Medina et al., 2021; Kowalik et al., 2013). Our aim is to determine
the localization of mPRs alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon in the
human endometrium and to evaluate their gene expression throughout
the menstrual cycle.
Methods: Endometrial tissues were collected from endometrial biopsies
of healthy oocyte donors for each phase of the menstrual cycle: early
proliferative, late proliferative, early secretory, mid-secretory, and late
secretory (six biopsies per phase). The in vivo localization and abundance
of mPR alpha, beta, gamma, delta and epsilon throughout the menstrual
cycle were determined by immunohistochemistry (n=3 per phase).
Staining was analyzed using QuPath software to classify expression levels
as negative, +1, +2 or +3. RNA was isolated from endometrial tissue and
gene expression of mPRs was quantified by RT-qPCR (n=3 per phase).
Results: In vivo immunohistochemistry revealed that mPRs are
expressed in endometrial cells throughout the menstrual cycle, with
higher expression in glandular and luminal epithelial cells compared to
stromal cells. Differential expression was observed, with mPR epsilon
and beta showing higher levels, while mPR delta had lower expression.
Additionally, there was a trend of increased expression of mPR delta
during the proliferative phase, followed by a decrease during the
secretory phase. RT-qPCR confirmed continuous expression throughout
the menstrual cycle.
Conclusion: Our study confirms the expression of mPR alpha, beta,
gamma, delta, and epsilon throughout the menstrual cycle. mPR beta and
epsilon showed higher expression levels compared to the other mPRs.
Additionally, mPRs were more abundantly expressed in the luminal and
glandular epithelium than in the stroma. Funding: CIGRIS/2022/187
(2023-016-1); ISCIII - PI23/00860.
T-138
Bridging Gaps in Reproductive Medicine Education: The Supplemental
Program on Infertility and Reproductive Medicine (SPIRM). Hannah
Pope†, Abigail Winder, Amy Wozniak, Jameela Media, Jessica Shaker,
Mary Murphy, Mirelle Dawoud, Ann Lal∗. Loyola University, Maywood,
IL, United States.
Introduction: Infertility impacts approximately 15% of reproductive-aged
couples, this number is estimated to continue to rise over the upcoming
years. Multiple studies have documented a knowledge gap in infertility
education, including basic definitions, evaluation, and management
options, in medical school curriculum. Association of Professors of
Gynecology and Obstetrics (APGO) has clear medical student objectives
for infertility education. The goal of our study was to assess medical
students’ baseline knowledge of infertility and create an educational
intervention to improve their knowledge of infertility.
Methods: This is a pre/post study to assess the effectiveness of an
infertility educational intervention. The intervention was given to all
medical students at a US medical school from January 2023 through
April 2024. It was performed during mandatory lecture time during the
obstetrics and gynecology clerkships. A 29 question validated fertility
questionnaire (FIT-KS) was used to assess students’ knowledge on the
topic of infertility, given both pre and post educational intervention. The
educational intervention was a Power Point-based lecture, given by the
148A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
same lecturer, with objectives based on APGO medical student objectives
for infertility. A McNamar’s test was used to test improvement in each
individual question pre and post intervention. A paired t-test was used to
test the hypothesis that the total percent correct for all questions were the
same pre and post intervention.
Results: A total of 233 students were invited to participate in the SPIRM
study, 9 students declined to participate, 5 did not fully complete the
questionnaires, leaving a total of 228 participants included for analysis.
Overall, total scores increased from pre to post, 67.4% correct in the pre
intervention to 78.5% correct in the post intervention, p-value <0.001.
There was improvement in scores in 23 out of the 29 questions. Of these
23 questions, 18 improvements were statistically significant, p <0.05. Of
the 11 questions assessing basic reproductive physiology knowledge, all
11 showed a statistically significant improvement between pre and post
test scores. Of the 8 questions that assessed knowledge of risk factors
for infertility, 4 showed a statistically significant improvement. Of the
8 questions that assessed infertility management options, 4 showed a
statistically significant improvement.
Conclusion: Our study demonstrated a significant improvement on a
validated fertility questionnaire, when comparing pre and post knowledge
scores. Further adoption and expansion of this curriculum can continue to
help bridge the gap of infertility and reproductive education in obstetrics
and gynecology medical student education.
T-139
What Accounts for the Increased Risk of HDP Seen with Donor
and Autologous Egg IVF Pregnancies? Rui Yang†, Wendy Y. Zhang∗,
Elizabeth B. Sherwin∗, Purnima N. Iyer∗, Shilpi Sehgal†, Xi Plummer†,
Valerie Baker∗, Ruth Bunker Lathi∗, Virginia D. Winn∗. Stanford
University, Stanford, CA, United States.
Introduction: Risk of hypertensive disease of pregnancy (HDP; i.e.
gestational HTN, preeclampsia) is reported higher in in vitro fertilization
(IVF) pregnancies and for oocyte donation. The prevailing concept is that
foreign antigens of the donor gamete contribute. However, recent data
suggests that absence of the corpus luteum (CL) (programmed cycle)
versus presence of CL (natural cycle) may contribute to IVF-related PE
risk. This study aims to evaluate whether the HDP risk factors are different
between donor versus autologous IVF pregnancies.
Methods: This is a secondary data analysis using the Pregnancy Outcome
Following Infertility (POFI) database. Women with history of infertility
and pregnant at approximately 8 weeks of gestation were eligible to
participate (2011 to 2017; n=893). We included participants who had
a birth conceived by IVF (n=470). We investigated predictors of new
onset HDP in by type of oocyte (donor versus autologous). Univariate
comparisons were conducted using two sample t-tests or Mann-Whitney
U tests for continuous variables and Chi-square or Fisher’s exact tests
for categorical variables with a significance level of 0.05. Multivariable
logistic regression models were conducted adjusting for potential
confounders, and an ROC curve was determined.
Results: There were 45 pregnancies from donor cycles and 425 from
autologous IVF cycles. The baseline demographic characteristics showed
higher ages for patients and their partners, and a higher rate of absence
of CL in the donor group compared to the autologous group (75.6%
vs. 24.2%, p<0.001). The incidence of HDP was 20.0% in the oocyte
donation group and 11.8% in autologous IVF group (p=0.113). In egg
donor cycles, univariate analysis showed mean arterial pressure (MAP)
as the only factor significantly associated with HDP (mean 94.4 vs. 84.9,
p=0.011), which was no longer significant in the adjusted regression
model (OR=1.093, p=0.070). In univariate analysis of autologous IVF
cycles, MAP (mean 90.6 vs. 83.0, p<0.001) and twins (22% vs. 7.7%,
p=0.003) were significant risk factors. Multivariable regression analysis
revealed that in addition to MAP (OR=1.075, p<0.001) and twin pregnancy
(OR=4.338, p<0.001), history of RPL (OR=2.429, p=0.043) and absence
of CL (OR=2.187, p=0.026) were also positively associated with HDP.
Based on the MAP ROC, using a cut-off of 87.5mmHg (ROC 0.722,
Youden Index:0.397) had a sensitivity of 0.68, a specificity of 0.72, a
PPV of 0.26 and a NPP of 0.94 in predicting HDP.
Conclusion: Absence of CL was a risk factor for HDP for autologous
cycles but not for donor cycles, suggesting groups may have different risk
factors. The absence of significant risk factors for donor cycles may be
due to sample size or factors lacking in the analysis. For IVF, those with
a higher MAP in early pregnancy had a moderate association with HDP.
T-140
Comparative Study of In Vitro Maturation of Human Oocytes
Utilizing Four Antioxidant Supplements. Jean-Claire Dillon†, Valia
Achille, Michael Jochum, Chelsea Henshaw, Irene Peregrin-Alvarez,
Audrey Messelt, Momal Sharif, Laura Detti∗. Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, TX, United States.
Introduction: To evaluate and compare the rate of in vitro maturation
(IVM) of human Germinal Vesicle (GV) and Metaphase 1 (M1) stage
oocytes collected via transvaginal oocyte aspiration (TVA) and cultured
in standard culture media versus media supplemented with antioxidants
(CoQ10, Melatonin, Resveratrol, and Quercetin). The aim was to assess
whether these antioxidants could enhance maturation to Metaphase 2
(M2) oocytes and reduce degeneration rates.
Methods: Eighty-seven immature oocytes (GV and M1) were collected
from 36 women who underwent TVA 36-hours post-trigger injection,
following standard ovarian stimulation protocols. The oocytes were
immediately cultured in standard one-step culture media (Control)
supplemented with one of the following antioxidants: CoQ10 (50 μM)1,
Melatonin (1 μM )2, Quercetin (10 μM)3, or Resveratrol (1 μM)4. Culture
conditions were maintained at 37 °C with 6% CO₂, 5% O₂, and 90%
N₂, in the Vitrolife Embryoscope culture system. Oocyte maturation to
M2 was assessed at 24 and 48 hours. Statistical analysis was conducted
using Pearson chi-squared test, one-way ANOVA and t-tests using R,
version 4.4.1.
Results: Each of the five groups contained 16-19 GV and M1 oocytes for
analysis. Significant differences were observed in antral follicle counts
and trigger injection types between the control and each treatment group
(p<0.05), but no significant differences were noted in patient age, BMI,
race, ethnicity, AMH levels, or total gonadotropin dose. Despite a slightly
enhanced maturation of GVs with Melatonin at 24 hours (66.7% vs 63.6%;
p = 0.41), maturation rates of GV and M1 oocytes cultured with Melatonin,
CoQ10, and Quercetin were not significantly different from the control
group after 24 hours and 48 hours in culture. Resveratrol significantly
reduced oocyte maturation to M2 at 24 hours (10% vs 54.4%; p=0.004
for GV; and 28.6% vs 100%; p=0.038 for M1) and increased oocyte
degeneration compared to controls (5.8% vs 0%; p= 0.001), indicating
a detrimental effect.
Conclusion: The addition of antioxidants, Melatonin, CoQ10, or
Quercetin, did not significantly improve maturation rates of GV and
M1 to M2 oocytes over 24 and 48 hours, compared to standard culture
media. Surprisingly, Resveratrol led to increased oocyte degeneration,
highlighting the need for caution when introducing new supplements
into IVM protocols. While antioxidants are often considered beneficial
for reducing oxidative stress, our findings show that more studies need to
be conducted to establish optimal concentrations of such supplements to
avoid potential toxicity. We are currently investigating whether antioxidant
supplementation can expedite the time of oocyte maturation to M2, thus
allowing for timely utilization (freezing/fertilization).
T-141
The Effect of Environmental Stressors on Anti-Mullerian Hormone
Levels in Lebanese Women. Ghina Ghazeeri∗,1 Sima F Sharafeddin†,1
Zeina Chehade†,1 Lara Nahouli†,1 Antoine Hannoun∗,1 Samya El Sayed†.2
1American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon; 2John Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Prolonged and repetitive exposure to stressors leads to
detrimental effects on female reproductive health. In turn, reproductive
health conditions such as polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) and
infertility can increase susceptibility to stress and elevate risk of adverse
mental health outcomes. Anti-Mullerian Hormone (AMH) is the most
widely used measure of functional ovarian reserve. Higher levels of
psychosocial stress have been linked to a decline in AMH levels as
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 149A
studied in women with infertility. To provide context, since October
2019, Lebanon has been engulfed in a multipronged crisis, beginning
with a severe economic collapse, which was further exacerbated by
the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, followed by the
catastrophic Beirut Blast in Aug’ 20 which occurred in a densely populated
area of the city leaving thousands injured and displaced in its wake. These
compounding national and international events caused considerable stress,
resulting in a substantial mental health burden. As such, we employed
a retrospective approach to trace the trend in AMH levels in a sample
of reproductive-aged Lebanese women in a tertiary healthcare center in
Beirut in light of the events described.
Methods: Following institutional review board approval, we performed
a retrospective chart review using the American University of Beirut
Medical Center’s electronic medical record system of women aged 18 -
40 with AMH levels tested between 01/18 and 06/23 [excluding the time
period between Feb’ 20 - Dec’ 20] (n=563). We excluded patients with preexisting
hormonal disorders or those currently undergoing gonadotoxic
therapy. Patients who had AMH levels between Jan ‘18 - Jan ‘20 were
included in the ‘pre-stressful events’ group (n=254) while those tested
between Jan’ 21 - Jun’ 23 were in the ‘post-stressful events’ group (n=283).
We recorded patient’s age, BMI, obstetrical and gynecological history,
and lab values (AMH, FSH, LH, estradiol, prolactin, TSH, vitamin D).
Results were calculated using the independent t-test.
Results: Mean age and BMI were similar across the two groups. Overall,
our study demonstrated a lower mean AMH level in the post-stressful
events group (2.12 ± 1.99) as compared to the pre-stressful events group
(2.5 2± 2.94), but this difference was not statistically significant (p: 0.061).
Interestingly, however, in sub-group analysis, we found that patients with
PCOS had a significant decline in the mean AMH level (from 7.92 ± 4.87
to 4.18 ± 3.71; p: 0.004) as did patients with primary infertility (from 2.69
± 2.04 to 1.74 ± 1.25; p: 0.008).
Conclusion: Women with pre-existing reproductive health disorders,
such as PCOS and infertility, are more vulnerable to stress and are more
likely to experience a decline in AMH levels and, by extension, ovarian
reserve following stressful experiences.
T-142
Predicting Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) Risk:
Investigating Predictors for Culdocentesis. Colleen McKay, Katerina
Poulos, Alyssa Sandefer, Jolie Viener, Lynn Westphal, Angie Beltsos.
Kindbody, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) is a
complication of ovarian stimulation for assisted reproductive technology.
In severe cases, culdocentesis is required to remove excess fluid. The
objective of this study was to better understand the most predictive factors
of severe OHSS.
Methods: A retrospective chart review was conducted at a private multicenter
fertility clinic of patients who experienced OHSS following oocyte
retrieval between January 2019 and April 2024. 100 patients were divided
into two groups: those who underwent culdocentesis (n=20) and those
who did not (n=80). Baseline hormone levels were drawn on the first day
of a patient’s stimulation cycle. Antral follicle count (AFC) and estradiol
(E2) were measured prior to the patient administering their trigger shot.
A diagnosis of OHSS was defined as complaints of bloating, cramping,
shortness of breath, or severe abdominal pain following oocyte retrieval
that required an evaluation. The correlation coefficient (Pearson’s
correlation) between each indicator and whether a culdocentesis was
performed was calculated using R.
Results: The magnitude of the highest correlation coefficient indicates
the strongest correlation and best predictor of whether the patient will
require a culdocentesis. The number of oocytes collected (r=0.315) was
the strongest predictor that the patient will require culdocentesis. There
is a significant difference (p≤0.05) for all measured indicators except for
trigger E2 (r=0.051, p=0.062). Age shows a weak negative correlation (r=-
0.029, p=0.012). Body mass index (BMI) has a small positive correlation
(r=0.091, p=0.036). Baseline Anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) displays a
significant negative correlation (r=-0.091, p=0.001). On the other hand,
baseline E2 shows a slight positive correlation (r=0.094, p=0.002). The
number of stimulation days has a slight positive correlation (r=0.066,
p=0.013). AFC shows a negative correlation (r=-0.057, p=0.020).
Conclusion: A high number of oocytes collected correlated with
patients that were more likely to experience severe OHSS and require
culdocentesis. Further studies should evaluate treatment modifications that
can reduce a patient’s chance of developing severe OHSS. Proactively
utilizing predictors of OHSS enables clinicians to implement tailored
preventive and management strategies, enhancing patient safety and
treatment outcomes.
T-143
Association of Phthalate Plasticizers with Sex Steroid Hormones in
Hispanic Females with PCOS. Sophie Kim, Sireesha Reddy, Chinthana
Thangavel, Pallavi Dubey. Texas Tech Health Science Center El Paso, El
Paso, TX, United States.
Introduction: Phthalates are synthetic chemicals commonly used in
industrial/commercial products. Evidence suggests that exposure to
phthalates may affect the HPA axis, total testosterone (TT) levels, and
sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels. Dysregulation of sex
hormones is associated with multiple diseases including endocrine
cancers, polycystic ovary syndrome, and metabolic abnormalities. We
examined the association of exposure to phthalates with sex hormone
levels, obesity, and metabolic syndrome.
Methods: A prospective cross-sectional study was performed at
TTUHSC-El Paso Ob-Gyn clinics including US-born, non-pregnant,
Hispanic women, aged 18-40, with negative history of contraception
within the past two months. Exposure to 8 phthalates including diisobutyl
phthalate, diethyl phthalate, dibutyl phthalate, butyl benzyl phthalate,
di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, di-2-ethylhexyl isophthalate, bis(2-ethylhexyl)
terephthalate, and butyl isobutyl phthalate were measured in urine by GCMS.
Total testosterone and SHBG were quantified by Chemiluminescence
immunoassay. Data was analyzed using spearman rank correlation tests.
Results: 40 subjects were considered eligible for the analysis.
Mean BMI for PCOS subjects and controls were greater than 30.
PCOS subjects had lower SHBG (40.10) and higher TT (63.45) than
controls. di-2-ethylhexylphthalate, di2ethylhexylisophthalate and bis-
(2-ethylhexyl) terephthalate were negatively correlated with SHBG
while TT was positively correlated with di-2-ethylhexylisophthalate
in the entire cohort. For PCOS women, di-2-ethylhexylphthalate and
di-2-ethylhexylisophthalate were significantly negatively correlated
with SHBG only after adjusting metabolic syndrome, obesity and
demographics. None of the phthalates were significantly associated
with BMI.
Conclusion: There is a direct association between phthalates and lower
SHBG but not testosterone independent of BMI or elements of metabolic
syndrome.
T-146
The Role of Thrombospondin-1 (THBS1) in the Reproductive
Function: Insights from Sperm Evaluation in Mice. Cristina Rodríguez-
Hernández†, Noelia Ramírez-Martín†, Anna Buigues†, Jessica Martínez,
Sonia Herraiz∗. IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVI Foundation -
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria La Fe (IIS La Fe), Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: Thrombospondin-1 (THBS1) is a multifunctional
angiogenic protein that has been recently related to reproductive function.
Indeed, THBS1 knockout (THBS1-/- ) mice, characterized by a partial gene
deletion and absence of a functional protein, showed impaired fertility
and neonatal viability. Our recent findings suggest that the absence
of THBS1 in the ovary leads to an increased number of follicles and
metaphase-II oocytes in mice, although it does not significantly impair
embryo development. Thus, we aim to evaluate if the reduced reproductive
performance of the THBS1 knockout strain is associated with deleterious
effects of THBS1 deficiency on the male reproductive function.
Methods: Wild-type (WT, C57BL/6), heterozygous (THBS1+/- ) and
homozygous (THBS1-/- ) embryos were generated by in vitro fertilization
and transferred to recipient CD1 females. Then, when the offspring reached
the adult reproductive age, males from the WT, THBS1+/- and THBS1- /-
150A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
phenotypes (n=3-5/group) were sacrificed to assess sperm function. Sperm
was collected by puncture from the caudal epididymis and a 15-minute
incubation in Sperm Preparation medium performed to allow sperm
dispersion. Concentration and motility parameters were determined in
a Neubauer hemacytometer by two observers while morphology was
evaluated on haematoxylin-eosin (H-E) stained smears.
Results: The main sperm parameters were not modified by THBS1
expression, as significant differences were not found when concentration
(THBS1-/-: 64.1 ± 19.2 million/ml, THBS1+/-: 55.2 ± 13.2 million/ml,
WT: 49.4 ± 20.9 million/ml, p=0.53) and motility (THBS1-/-: 49.2 ±
6.4%, THBS1+/-: 47.7 ± 3.0%, WT: 46.1 ± 6.5%, p=0.75) were compared
between groups. Moreover, sperm morphology analysis revealed similar
percentages of sperm defects in THBS1 deficient samples when compared
to controls (THBS1-/-: 35.7 ± 5.5%, THBS1+/-: 38.9 ± 4.2%, WT: 37.2 ±
8.0%, p= 0.72).
Conclusion: Although the absence of THBS1 appears to be associated
with alterations in folliculogenesis and reproductive outcomes, THBS1
deficiency does not seem to affect male reproductive function. Further
studies are required to determine the role of this protein in female fertility,
with particular attention to the uterine factor.
T-147
Vaginal Septum Resection Optimizes Fertility and Reproductive
Performance in Laboratory Mice. Abigail Solomon†, Yotam Ashkenazi†,
Sydney Bell†, María Chaves Rivera†, Chase Burzynski†, Aya Tal, Reshef
Tal∗. Yale University, New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Vaginal septa are bands of tissue that can longitudinally
bisect the vaginal canal. This congenital abnormality occurs in many
species including humans and mice. In humans, vaginal septa can
negatively impact fertility and childbirth. Similarly, the presence of vaginal
septa in mice is associated with poor reproductive outcomes including
infertility, prolonged breeding times and labor dystocia. In mice, the
incidence of vaginal septum has been reported from zero to as high as
38%. High septum rates in mice are detrimental to research by causing
a considerable waste of time and financial resources. Surgical resection
of vaginal septum is a treatment to restore normal anatomy and improve
reproductive outcomes in women. However, this treatment has not been
explored in mice to date.
Methods: We observed a very high incidence of longitudinal vaginal
septum in one of our mixed background (Swiss Webster, C57BL/6J) inbred
mice colonies (n= 26/72, 36.1%) that suffered from poor breeding. We
sought to test our hypothesis that vaginal septum resection would lead
to normalization of fertility and reproductive outcomes in affected mice.
Female mice (6-8 weeks old) were evaluated for vaginal septum and
divided into 3 groups: septum surgery, septum no surgery, and no septum
control. Surgical septum excision was done under general anesthesia using
microscissors with aid of dissection microscope. Breeding with proven
males began 7 days following septum surgery, and copulatory plugs
were checked daily for greater than 10 days. Weights were monitored for
2 months or until delivery. Upon delivery, litter size, viability and pup
weights were recorded. Statistical analysis was performed using t-test or
z-test (GraphPad Prism).
Results: Histological evaluation of the longitudinal septum showed that
it consisted of stratified squamous epithelium and fibrous tissue. Our
results demonstrate increased copulatory plug rates (87.5% vs. 50.0%,
p=0.05) and pregnancy rates after 1 month of breeding (84.6% vs. 50.0%,
p=0.03) in mice that underwent septum resection, as compared to septum
mice that did not undergo resection, respectively. Plug rates (75.0%) and
pregnancy rates (56.3%) in control mice without septa were not different
compared to septum surgery group (n=12-16/group). While there were no
differences in litter size or viability between groups, the mean pup litter
weight in the septum resection group (1.39g) was significantly higher than
that of the septum without surgery group (1.27g) (p=0.03).
Conclusion: Our findings indicate that mice fertility, time to pregnancy
and pup size are all adversely affected by the presence of vaginal septum.
We show for the first time that surgical resection of longitudinal vaginal
septum can normalize reproductive outcomes in mice. This procedure can
save substantial time and financial resources in mice research impacted
by poor breeding.
T-149
Modeling Human Embryo Implantation in a 3D Cell-Engineered
Endometrial Model. Matteo Molè∗,1 Sarah Elderkin,2 Andrea Palomar,3
Irene Zorzan,2 Christopher Penfold,2 Alexandra Pokhilko,2 Francisco
Dominguez∗,4 Peter Rugg-Gunn∗.2 1Stanford University, Palo Alto,
CA, United States; 2Babraham Institute, Cambridge, United Kingdom;
3Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria La Fe, IVI, Valencia, Spain; 4Instituto
de Investigación Sanitaria La Fe, Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: Implantation of the human embryo is a crucial event in
gestation, marking the initiation of pregnancy. At the transition between
the first and second week of gestation, the embryo must securely implant in
the uterus, establishing the building blocks of the placenta. Due to limited
availability of suitable models and inability to directly observe this process
in vivo, this stage of human development has remained largely unexplored.
Yet, the process of implantation is highly susceptible to failure, with a
significant percentage of embryos unable to develop beyond this stage,
leading to early miscarriages. This clinically observed “implantation
barrier” often requires patients to undergo numerous cycles of IVF, with
no guarantee of a successful pregnancy outcome. To gain insights into
this process, we developed a 3D cell-engineered model which closely
recapitulates the cytoarchitecture of the human endometrium, opening the
opportunity to study the process of human implantation in vitro.
Methods: We established a cell-engineered model of the human
endometrium using primary endometrial epithelial and stromal cells
isolated from biopsies of healthy donors. The model was hormonally
stimulated to mimic the secretory phase of the menstrual cycle. Human
blastocysts and blastoids were then transferred onto the endometrial
scaffold and monitored for up to 14 d.p.f. To investigate the biological
crosstalk established between embryo and endometrial tissue, we
transcriptionally profiled the early embryo-maternal interface at 14 d.p.f.
Results: Our model recapitulates key aspects of the human endometrium.
Upon hormonal stimulation, the endometrial model adopts features of
tissue receptivity reminiscent of the mid-secretory phase of the natural
menstrual cycle. Human blastocysts and blastoids undergo apposition,
adhesion, and deep-tissue invasion into the endometrial scaffold. In these
conditions, the embryo develops into a bilaminar disc with expanded
amniotic and yolk sac cavities, and establishes key placental milestones
such the trophoblast syncytium, the lacunae and cytotrophoblast cell
columns, precursors of the primary villi. Our transcriptomic analysis
revealed key ligand-receptor interactions were highly cell-type-specific
between trophoblast and endometrial cells, proving first insights into the
early embryo-maternal crosstalk established at implantation.
Conclusion: This model provides a valuable tool for studying the cellular
and molecular mechanisms underlying human embryo implantation,
holding potential for developing new diagnostic tools and therapeutic
strategies to improve the success rates of implantation.
T-150
Unveiling the Secretome of the Human Endometrium: Insights into
In Vitro Complex 3D Models and Future Therapies. Marcos Agustina-
Hernández†,1 María Gómez-Álvarez†,1 Clara Bueno-Fernandez†,1,2 Emilio
Francés-Herrero†,1 Paula Alonso-Frías†,1 Amparo Faus,1 Mónica Romeu,3
Antonio Pellicer∗,4 Irene Cervelló∗.1 1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance,
IVI Foundation, IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2Universitat de València,
Valencia, Spain; 3Hospital Universitari y Politécnic La Fe, Valencia,
Spain; 4IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVIRMA Roma, Rome, Italy.
Introduction: Human endometrial epithelial organoids (hEEOs) are 3D
in vitro models that reproduce the human endometrium. The integration
of other cell populations, such as stromal cells, could enhance their
complexity and biological relevance, closely mimicking native tissue.
Interestingly, the secretome (total of released biomolecules from cell
culture) produced under specific in vitro conditions is key not only to
understand physiological, developmental, and pathological processes;
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 151A
but also to apply it as a potential therapy. In this study, we analyzed the
secretome profile related to different human endometrial in vitro models
for future clinical applications.
Methods: Endometrial biopsies were obtained from healthy women
(N=6). From each biopsy, both epithelial and primary stromal cells were
isolated to culture hEEOs and 2D monolayer, respectively. Additionally,
the endometrial stromal stem cell line ICE7 was used as a non-primary
source. In vitro conditions also included hEEOs co-cultured with
both stromal populations. A Transwell system with a 4-μm porous
membrane was used to allow cell communication without physical
contact. Additionally, individual cultures of hEEOs, primary stroma,
and ICE7 were established. A specific expansion medium was used for
the development of hEEOs. After 7 days of cultivation, the media from
all conditions were collected for MS/MS proteomics analysis. Finally,
descriptive analyses (PCA, heatmap) and functional evaluations (GSEA)
were performed.
Results: Proteomic analysis showed secretome clustering into three
groups: (i) hEEOs, (ii) both stromal populations, and (iii) 3D co-cultures.
Surprisingly, the proteomic profiles of primary stromal cells and the
ICE7 cell line were highly similar, suggesting comparable potential in
modulating cellular responses and equivalent therapeutic applications.
Moreover, GSEA highlighted significant KEGG pathway differences
(FDR<0.05) in the secretomes from co-cultures versus those from
single cultures, promoting focal adhesion, extracellular matrix (ECM)-
receptor interaction, endocytosis, and PI3K-AKT signaling. These results
confirmed the essential role of the secretomes from co-cultures in cell
survival, communication, proliferation, and ECM interaction.
Conclusion: Co-cultures exhibit a distinct secretome compared to
single cultures, enhancing key pathways related to cell proliferation and
communication. Furthermore, the similarity of the secretome between
primary stromal cells and ICE7 suggests that both may be equally effective
in future therapies.
T-151
Depletion of Endometrial Steroid Receptor Coactivator 3 Causes
Murine Early Pregnancy Loss. Vineet Kumar Maurya,1 Lan Hai,1 San
Pin Wu,2 Jianming Xu,1 Francesco DeMayo,2 John Lydon∗.1 1Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States; 2National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences, Durham, NC, United States.
Introduction: While endometrial dysfunction is implicated in early
pregnancy loss (EPL), the cellular and molecular underpinnings are
unclear. Steroid Receptor Coactivator-3 (SRC-3) is a member of the p160/
SRC family of transcriptional coregulators. Although there is increasing
evidence for important roles for SRC-1 and SRC-2 in both male and female
reproduction, the role of SRC-3 in these processes is less well understood.
We recently demonstrated that SRC-3 is essential for decidualization of
cultured human endometrial stromal cells, providing ex vivo functional
and translational support for endometrial stromal cell SRC-3 in early
pregnancy establishment. Despite the significance of these translationally
relevant findings, the in vivo importance of endometrial SRC-3 during
early pregnancy was not addressed.
Methods: To address the in vivo significance of endometrial SRC-3 in
early pregnancy, we recently generated an innovative conditional SRC-3
mouse (SRC-3 d/d) in which SRC-3 is selectively ablated in epithelial and
stromal cells of the endometrium that express the progesterone receptor
(PGR). Apart from standard fertility tests and established histological and
molecular methods, comparative molecular phenotyping of control and
SRC-3 d/d mice included genome-wide transcriptomic analysis of their
endometrial tissue obtained on defined days of early pregnancy.
Results: Analyses of control and SRC-3 d/d females (n=10/group)
determined that normal embryos can attach and adhere to the luminal
epithelium (LE) of the SRC-3 d/d endometrium at gestation day 5 (GD 5)
and invade the LE by GD 6. By GD 7, the underlying stromal cells of
the SRC-3 d/d endometrium display only a partial decidual response with
the majority of the stromal cell population failing to undergo the normal
proliferative-to-differentiative switch. As a result, embryos in SRC-3
d/d endometrium show clear signs of demise at GD 7. Those stromal
cells, which express a partial decidual response, undergo premature
programmed cell death. While all SRC-3 d/d mice exhibit EPL by GD
7.5 (before placentation), control mice carried their pregnancies to term.
Bioinformatic analyses of the control and SRC-3 d/d uterine transcriptome
at GD 5, 6, and 7 revealed that expression of genes that are normally
suppressed during decidualization are aberrantly elevated in the SRC-3
d/d endometrium as pregnancy progresses from GD5 to GD 7. Conversely,
the expression levels of genes, which are critical for decidualization, are
markedly reduced.
Conclusion: Our findings support an indispensable role for endometrial
SRC-3 in maintaining the normal life span of the endometrial decidual
cell, which is essential to sustain murine pregnancy progression to the
placentation stage, a gestational timeframe that equates to the first trimester
of pregnancy in the human.
T-152
Use of Micro-CT Imaging to Assess the Effects of Uterine PGRMC1
Overexpression on Embryonic, Fetal and Placental Development.
Nikhil Srivastava†, Sandeep Paudel†, Jack A. Govaerts†, Jacob McDaniel†,
Cindy A. Pru∗, Todd A. Schoborg∗, James K. Pru∗. University of Wyoming,
Laramie, WY, United States.
Introduction: Based on conditional mutagenesis and overexpression
studies in mice, progesterone receptor membrane component (Pgrmc)
1 and Pgrmc2 are essential for normal fertility in the female and male.
The objectives of this study were to: 1) evaluate the impact of uterine
PGRMC1 over-expression on embryonic, fetal and placental growth;
and 2) determine the utility of micro-CT for imaging murine prenatal
development.
Methods: A Cag-loxP-STOP-loxP-Pgrmc1 (Pgrmc1-OE) mouse line was
developed to assess the impact of uterine PGRMC1 overexpression on
fertility and embryonic, fetal and placental development. Pgr+/+;Pgrmc1-
OE (CTL) and Pgrcre/+;Pgrmc1-OE (OE) animals (N=7) were used in a
6-month fertility trial. Implantation sites from CD1, CTL, and OE dams
were collected for micro-CT imaging on day of pregnancy (DOP) 7, 8,
10 and 14. Sites were formalin fixed, embedded in acrylamide hydrogel,
and incubated in potassium iodide contrasting agent. Micro-CT images
taken at 2-5 μm/voxel resolution were analyzed with Dragonfly software.
Linear and volumetric measurements were taken within implantation sites
at various times throughout early gestation in CD1, CTL, and OE dams.
These measurements included cross-sectional length, head circumference,
and somite count, as well as volumes of the neural tube, ectoplacental cone,
amniotic cavity, exo-coelomic cavity, placenta and vascular labyrinth, and
total embryonic/fetal chambers. Fetal development was further assessed
by tracking brain, cardiac and limb formation on DOP 10.5 and 14.5.
Results: Conditional overexpression of PGRMC1 in the female
reproductive tract resulted in a significant decrease in the number of
pups/litter and total litters. It also caused early reproductive senescence
stemming in part from premature ovarian insufficiency. Conventional
histology and micro-CT imaging established that embryonic, fetal,
placental, and postnatal growth trajectories were dramatically reduced
in offspring from OE dams regardless of offspring genotype. Quantified
and analyzed imaging data will be discussed for embryonic/fetal
measurements.
Conclusion: Uterine overexpression of PGRMC1 impaired overall
fecundity and fertility. This outcome coincides with reduced embryonic,
fetal and placental fetal growth in a uterine environment that, based
on prior metabolomics studies, has abnormal lipid content when
PGRMC1/2 homeostasis is disrupted. Importantly, micro-CT and AI-based
segmentation of images served as a valuable approach for generating
quality linear, 3D and volumetric growth measurements throughout
gestation. This work was supported in part by NIH HD102386 and
HD112788 and the Curtis and Marian Rochelle Endowment in Animal
Science.
152A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
T-153
Decidualization Failure in Infertile Women: Impact on Implantation
and Trophoblast Differentiation. Isao Tamura, Takasaki Hitomi, Sugino I
Norihiro. Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine, Ube, Japan.
Introduction: Decidualization is one of the changes in which human
endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) respond to progesterone and become
larger and rounder. It involves significant alterations in gene expression
and cellular functions, regulated by key transcription factors such as C/
EBPβ, FOXO1, and WT1. This process is an important event for embryo
implantation and successful pregnancy. Although it has been believed that
impaired decidualization leads to implantation failure and miscarriage,
the prevalence and underlying mechanisms of decidualization failure in
infertile women remain poorly understood. In this study, we analyzed
endometrial biopsies from infertile women at late secretory phase to
determine the incidence of decidualization failure and assessed the
expression of key transcription factors in these patients. Additionally, we
established a novel in vitro implantation model to investigate the role of
decidualization in the implantation process.
Methods: (1)Endometrial dating was performed on the endometria
obtained in the late-secretory phase from 33 infertile women. Endometrial
dating of more than two days delay was defined as decidualization failure.
The expression of essential transcription factors for decidualization (C/
EBPβ, FOXO1 and WT1) was examined by immunohistochemistry.
(2)Human ESCs were cultured with cAMP/MPA for 4 days to induce
decidualization (decidualized ESCs). ESCs cultured without cAMP/MPA
were prepared as control cells (non-decidualized ESCs). To recapitulate the
implantation process, ESCs were then co-cultured with human trophoblast
stem cells in 3D to form cell aggregates. Single cell RNA-seq (scRNAseq)
and histological analysis were performed on the cell aggregates.
Results: (1) Among 32 cases, 20 cases (62.5 %) showed decidualization
failure. These patients tended to have a history of more frequent
miscarriages than those without decidualization failure. The expression
of three transcription factors was significantly lower in the patients with
decidualization failure than in those without decidualization failure. (2)
scRNA-seq identified distinct cell cluster profiles between the aggregates
formed with decidualized ESCs and non-decidualized ESCs, which is
characterized by an increased proportion of cells with high expression
of syncytiotrophoblast (ST) markers in the aggregates with decidualized
ESCs. Lacunae-like spaces, which is the origin of intervillous space
formed by ST, developed inside the aggregates formed with decidualized
ESC. These results suggested that decidualized ESC induces the
differentiation of trophoblast stem cells into ST.
Conclusion: The prevalence of decidualization failure is high in infertile
women and is associated with frequent miscarriages. As decidualized
ESCs induces ST differentiation, decidualization failure leads to
implantation failure and miscarriage due to impaired ST differentiation.
T-154
Wilms Tumor 1 (WT1) Regulates Stromal Cell Function in Human
Endometrium. Bangmin Liu†,1 Sudikshya Paudel†,1 Guang Hu∗,2 Steven
L. Young∗,3 Ye Yuan∗,4 Xiaoqiu Wang∗.1 1North Carolina State University,
Raleigh, NC, United States; 2National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences, Durham, NC, United States; 3Duke University School of Medicine,
Durham, NC, United States; 4Colorado Center for Reproductive Medicine,
Lone Tree, CO, United States.
Introduction: Infertile patients diagnosed with endometriosis exhibit
significant reduced endometrial expression of Wilms Tumor 1 (WT1)
protein. Similarly, women diagnosed with idiopathic infertility often
harbor WT1 mutations in the zinc finger domains, causing impaired DNA
binding activity. However, the functional roles of WT1 in regulating
human endometrium, particularly within stromal cells, remain largely
elusive.
Methods: In this study, we utilized telomerase-immortalized human
endometrial stromal cells (T-HESC) and small interfering RNA
(siRNA) to investigate the role of WT1 in stromal cell proliferation,
migration, and decidualization, as well as the associated transcriptomic
changes. T-HESCs were cultured in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium
(DMEM/F12) containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and penicillinstreptomycin.
Following transfection with WT1-targeting siRNA (siWT1)
or non-targeting control (siNTC) for 48 hours in Opti-MEM with 2%
charcoal-stripped FBS, cells decidualization was induced by exposing
to control vehicle (Veh treatment) or the hormone cocktail: 10 nM 17
β-estradiol, 1 μM medroxyprogesterone acetate, and 200 μM dibutyryl
cyclic-AMP, termed EPC. Thus, the treatment groups are: siNTC+Veh,
siNTC+EPC, siWT1+EPC. WT1 knockdown was validated by Western
blotting after 48-h transfection. Cell proliferation was evaluated on days 0,
3, and 6 of EPC treatment by Janus Green B staining, while cell migration
assessed at 0, 6, 12, and 24 hours post-scratch. RNA was extracted on day
6 of decidualization for quantitative real time PCR (qPCR), sequencing
and alignment to human genome (GRCh37).
Results: Compared to siNTC+Veh, siNTC+EPC treatment significantly
enhanced cell proliferation (P<0.001) and migration (P<0.001) at
all time points tested. These proliferative and migratory effects were
abolished (P<0.001) by WT1 knockdown (siWT1+EPC). qPCR showed
that siNTC+EPC upregulated WT1 (P<0.001), IGFBP1 (P<0.001), PRL
(P<0.001), PGR (P<0.01), and FOXO1 (P<0.001) expression by 7.97-,
686.75-, 712.87-, 34.76-, and 2.34-fold, respectively; however, WT1
knockdown inhibited IGFBP1 (P<0.0001) and PRL (P<0.01). WT1 knock
down resulted 1386 gene (578 up and 808 down) changes, Gene Set
Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) revealed that, as compared to siNTC+EPC,
KRAS signaling (normalized enrichment score [NES] = 1.44) and Notch
signaling (NES = -1.58) were the highest ranked positively and negatively
regulated pathways, respectively in siWT1+EPC treated cells.
Conclusion: Collectively, our study provides new insights into the roles
of WT1 in regulating uterine receptivity by modulating stromal cell
decidualization.
T-155
The Role of Lysyl Oxidases in Decidualization of Human Endometrial
Stromal Cells In Vitro. Catherine Boniface†,1 Jie Yu,2 Robert N. Taylor,2
Bronwyn Bryant,1 Shanmugasundaram Nallasamy∗.1 1University of Vemont,
Burlington, VT, United States; 2Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical
Sciences, Buffalo, NY, United States.
Introduction: In humans, endometrial decidualization is characterized by
complex morphological changes. Extracellular matrix proteins are integral
in transforming the endometrium into tissue receptive to implantation.
Lysyl oxidases are a family of highly conserved enzymes secreted by
the ECM and essential for the crosslinking and stabilization of collagen.
However, their role in human endometrial decidualization is unknown.
Our objective was to confirm the expression profile of LOX enzymes in
human endometrium and subsequently define the role of LOX enzymes in
decidualization utilizing in vitro cell stromal cell culture. We hypothesized
that LOX expression would increase during decidualization of human
endometrial cells.
Methods: Archival human endometrial tissue was used to confirm
presence of LOX, LOXL1, LOXL2, LOXL3, LOXL4 in human
endometrium using immunohistochemistry in secretory and proliferative
samples. Using primary human endometrial stromal cells, decidualization
was induced by treating with medium containing a hormonal cocktail:
10nM E, 1μM P, and 0.5mM 8-bromo-cAMP (E + P + cAMP) for 6 days.
Cell lysates were collected at different time-points and qPCR and Western
blot were used to analyze cell lysates and conditioned media, respectively.
Results: LOX enzymes were expressed in human endometrium in both the
secretory and proliferative phase during immunohistochemistry analysis.
In cell culture, LOX enzymes showed high expression and relatively
maintained transcription as evidenced by qPCR during decidualization,
and high protein expression was seen in conditioned media by Western
blot. Notably, there was a 7-fold increase in LOXL4 expression from day
0 to day 6 of decidualization (p= 0.0007).
Conclusion: Through these experiments, the robust expression of
LOX enzymes in the human cyclical endometrium was established.
The synthesis and secretion patterns of LOX enzymes during the
decidualization process of human endometrial cells were characterized,
and protein levels were found to be consistently high in conditioned media,
in line with expectations for ECM production. In ongoing experiments,
we would like to inhibit the activity of LOX enzymes using a natural
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 153A
and irreversible pan-LOX inhibitor, β-Aminopropionitrile (BAPN), to
further test the function of LOX enzymes during endometrial stromal
cell decidualization.
T-156
Uterine Injury Leads to Placental and Embryonic Defects in Future
Pregnancies in Mice. Elisa T Zhang,1 Kristen L. Wells,2 Abby J.
Bergman†,2 Emily E. Ryan,3 Lars M. Steinmetz.2 1University of California,
Davis, Davis, CA, United States; 2Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA,
United States; 3University of California, San Francisco, Fresno, CA,
United States.
Introduction: The uterus is central to mammalian reproduction and
gynecological health, and yet its capacities to regenerate itself and to
interact with the embryo remain poorly understood. While the uterus
is capable of scarless regeneration each menstrual or estrous cycle,
C-sections and other uterine injuries contribute to scarring, which result
in infertility or disorders like placenta previa and placenta accreta in
subsequent pregnancies. With rates of C-section at approximately 30% of
deliveries in the US and projected to climb, a deeper understanding of the
mechanisms by which these pregnancy disorders arise and opportunities
for intervention are needed.
Methods: Here we describe a rodent model of uterine injury on subsequent
in utero outcomes. After determining estrous stage using vaginal cytology,
we induced mechanical uterine injury by introducing a longitudinal
incision into one of two uterine horns. We allowed for ~1 month of
recovery, followed by natural matings and dissection during pregnancy
(E6.5-E15.5). We examined uterine wound sites 3 days, 5 days, 7 days, and
1 month after injury. Lastly, we performed bulk RNA-seq of uninjured and
injured uterine horns ~1 month after injury during either diestrus or estrus.
Results: Using this mouse model, we recapitulated several features of
human disorders, including implantation failure, previa-like embryo
misspacing, and accreta-like overinvasive placentas. Strikingly, only uteri
injured during the diestrus phase of the estrous cycle displayed subsequent
embryo misspacing and thus embryonic underdevelopment. The most
closely misspaced embryos result in fused placentas, of which at least
one is derived from a male embryo, suggesting possible involvement of
immune recognition of male antigens in dictating the severity of embryo
misspacing. Using RNA-seq, we identified perturbations in the expression
of components of the COX/prostaglandin pathway after recovery from
injury, a pathway that has previously been demonstrated to play an
important role in embryo spacing.
Conclusion: Altogether, our study shows that uterine injury engenders
a long-term molecular “memory” of damage that ultimately leads to
numerous placental and embryonic developmental defects with parallels
to human disorders.
T-157
Non-Invasive Biomarkers for the Prediction of a Personalized Window
of Implantation. Tal Imbar∗,1 Liora Jacobs Katan∗,2 Renana Haker†,2 Tali
Tavor Re’em∗,3 Shmuel Herzberg†,1 Reuven Reich∗.2 1Hadassah - Hebrew
Univ. MC, Jerusalem, Israel; 2faculty of Medicine Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel; 3Azrieli College of Engineering, Jerusalem,
Israel.
Introduction: Implantation thought to occur during the Window of
Implantation (WOI), when the endometrium is receptive to the embryo.
Successful implantation requires a receptive endometrium, a high-quality
embryo, and proper synchronization between the two. Implantation failure
remains a significant challenge in reproductive medicine. Currently, prior
to embryo transfer, the endometrium is appraised by ultra-sonographic
imaging. Others markers for endometrial receptivity, based on endometrial
biopsies and endometrial gene expression are performed in the cycle
preceding embryo transfer. These are invasive, and the collected data is
limited to a previous cycle. We searched for non-invasive bio-markers,
present in cervical-vaginal secretions, at the time of embryo transfer.
Methods: While routinely washing the cervix and vagina prior to embryo
transfer in IVF cycle, we collected the secretions from the wash swabs
and looked for markers in these secretions that can predict successful
implantation. Samples were pooled, based on the outcome of embryo
transfer, success or failure. A Nanosight analysis for Extracellular Vesicles
(EV’s). RNA extraction and small RNA sequencing. Functional analysis
of sncRNA transcription and qPCR.
Results: Piwi-RNA was found to be the most prominent type of RNA in
the samples. Nanosight analysis indicated that the samples contained both
exosome and microvesicle sized vesicles, and all samples expressed the
exosome markers CD9 and CD81. Validation was performed on a separate
sample cohort using qPCR analysis. miR-203a-3p was significantly higher,
miR-27a-3p marginally higher and piR-29323 marginally lower in women
with successful implantation.
Conclusion: Providing rapid, non-invasive, safe diagnostic results that
indicate optimal endometrial receptivity will enable more informed
decisions at the time of embryo transfer. Such new biomarker(s) could
significantly improve IVF efficacy, enhancing both pregnancy rates and
overall treatment outcomes.
T-158
Increases in State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) Psychological
Punctuations Disrupt Endometrial Gene Expression and Functions
Critical for Embryo Implantation. Diana Marti-Garcia†,1 Pilar Dolz,2
Patricia Sebastian-Leon,1 Maria del Carmen Vidal,2 Almudena Devesa-
Peiro,1 Eva Perez,2 Laura Caracena,2 Marcos Meseguer,2 Estrella Dura-
Ferrandis,3 Patricia Diaz-Gimeno∗.1 1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance,
IVI Foundation, IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2IVI Valencia, Valencia, Spain;
3University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: While it is well stablished that IVF treatments and infertility
itself are sources of stress, the causal bond between stress and infertility
remains poorly defined, particularly in relation to the endometrial factor
in infertility. As a result, this connection is frequently overlooked, not
being its evaluation standardized in the clinical setting. In this study, we
tested the hypothesis that increased stress levels in IVF patients impact
endometrial gene expression and function.
Methods: Mid-secretory phase endometrial biopsies were collected from
36 IVF patients (<45 years old, no uterine or systemic pathologies and
good quality embryos) who also underwent psychological evaluation
using State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), evaluating both acute
(State) and long term (Trait) stress. Endometrial RNA Sequencing was
performed according AmpliSeq for Illumina® Transcriptome Human
Gene Expression Panel protocol. Genes significantly affected by increases
in STAI punctuations were evaluated with maSigPro R package and
functionally annotated.
Results: No genes were found to be significantly influenced by changes in
patients’ STAI State punctuations. However, 12 genes showed significant
alterations in expression (p-value≤0.001) with increases in STAI Trait
punctuations, with 7 genes exhibiting decreased expression and 5 showing
increased expression. Notably, 57% of the decreased genes (n=4) were
RNA- related genes (long non-coding genes) and pseudogenes. The
remaining 3 genes were involved in ion transport (SLC22A15), cell cycle
regulation (INCA1), and transcriptional regulation (TGIF1). Increased
genes were mainly involved in inflammation (SAAL1), immune system
(COROA1, WAS), coagulation (SERPINE1) and cell adhesion (RPSA).
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that long-term chronic stress affects
endometrial gene expression and function by decreasing the expression
of endometrial genes primarily involved in regulatory processes and
increasing the expression of genes mediating immune system, coagulation
and adhesion. Given the critical role these functions play in embryo
implantation and development, this study innovatively suggests that
long-term stress may hinder reproductive success by disrupting these
pathways. Therefore, STAI Trait psychological evaluation could serve
as a non-invasive biomarker reflecting potential pregnancy impairments.
However, larger clinical studies linking these findings to reproductive
outcomes are necessary to draw definitive clinical conclusions.
154A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
T-159
Odd Skipped Related 1 (Osr1) is Cyclically Expressed in Mouse Uteri,
with Highest Expression during the Implantation Window. Sidney A
Pereira†,1 Gabrielle H Cherfane†,1,2,3 Ashley Kim†,1,2 Rona S Carroll,1
Wendy Kuohung,2,3 Ursula B Kaiser∗.1 1Brigham and Women’s Hospital and
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States; 2Boston University
Chobanian and Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, MA, United States;
3Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: Infertility affects 10% of those seeking pregnancy, and
treatment of infertility may reveal recurrent implantation failure (RIF) or
result in ectopic pregnancy (EP). Gaps persist in our understanding of the
etiology of these disorders, hampering clinical management. Our previous
study characterized a missense mutation in OSR1 identified in a patient
with impaired Mullerian duct (MD) development, uterine hypoplasia with
estrogen-unresponsive endometrium, and EP. Additionally, we showed that
OSR1/Osr1 is expressed in adult human and mouse endometrium and Osr1
knockout mouse embryos exhibited MD developmental abnormalities.
Thus, we hypothesize that Osr1 expression in the uteri and oviducts is
sex-steroid mediated, varying across the mouse estrous cycle.
Methods: Adult (age 3-4 months) wild-type C57BL/6 female mice were
euthanized during three distinct phases of the estrous cycle: proestrus
and estrus with elevated estradiol (E2), and diestrus with elevated
progesterone (P4) (n=8 per group). Estrous cycle stage was classified
based on vaginal smear cytology. Uteri and oviducts were harvested for
RNA extraction and analysis of Osr1 mRNA expression by RT-qPCR.
Additionally, expression of uterine P4-induced genes (Ihh and Gata2),
as well as oviduct E2-induced genes (Dcpp3 and Igfbp3) were assessed
as controls for estrous cycle phases. Statistical analyses were performed
using one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey post hoc test. P < 0.05 was
considered statistically significant.
Results: Osr1 expression in mouse uteri was higher in diestrus compared
to proestrus (p=0.0004) and estrus (p<0.0001). Conversely, Osr1
expression in oviducts did not vary across the cycle. As expected in uteri,
P4-induced genes (Ihh and Gata2) had higher expression in diestrus than
in proestrus (Ihh p=0.0194; Gata2 p=0.0074) or estrus (Ihh p=0.0110;
Gata2 p=0.0276). In the oviducts, E2-induced genes (Dcpp3 and Igfbp3)
had higher expression in phases with higher E2 levels (i.e., proestrus and
estrus). Dcpp3 expression was higher in estrus compared to both proestrus
(p=0.0061) and diestrus (p=0.0006), and Igfbp3 expression was higher in
proestrus than in diestrus (p=0.0110).
Conclusion: While Osr1 expression was unchanged in oviducts across the
estrous cycle, it varied in the uterus, with highest expression in diestrus,
the implantation window in mice, coinciding with higher expression of
P4-induced genes. Our data suggest Osr1 may play a role in implantation
in mice, and its expression may be altered in patients with RIF or EP.
T-160
Stem Cell Characteristics of Marmoset Monkey Endometrium. Yoon
Young Kim,1,2 Mi Jung Woo,2 Hee Jin Son,1 Ji Yeon Han,1 Sung Woo
Kim,1,2 Hoon Kim,1,2 Seung-Yup Ku.1,2 1Dept of OBGYN, Seoul National
University Hospital, Seoul, Korea, Republic of; 2Institute of Reproductive
Medicine and Population, MRC, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea,
Republic of.
Introduction: The endometrial has garnered interest in stem cell
research due to its unique repeated proliferation and differentiation
(decidualization) potential. The endometrium lining undergoes significant
remodeling during the menstrual cycle, indicating a robust regenerative
mechanism that these stem cell populations may mediate. In this study,
we aimed to evaluate the stemness of the endometrium by analyzing the
expression of key pluripotency markers in marmoset monkeys.
Methods: Uteri were isolated from two marmoset monkeys: a 6-week-old
and a 7-year-old. Endometrial tissue was scraped carefully to minimize
contamination with myometrial tissue. The isolated endometrial tissue
was then digested using 0.05% Trypsin-EDTA. Following digestion, the
cells were replated in appropriate culture conditions to facilitate growth
and maintain their cellular characteristics. We evaluated the expression
levels of stem cell-specific markers.
Results: The expression levels of these stem cell markers were decreased
in the 7-year-old marmoset compared to the 6-week-old. Furthermore,
responses to hormone treatments such as progesterone (P4) and
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) were also diminished in the
older marmosets. The proportion of stemness markers was notably reduced
in the 7-year-old endometrium, and treatment with GnRH significantly
inhibited the proliferation of endometrial cells, particularly in the older
specimen.
Conclusion: These results suggest that endometrial cells exhibit
characteristics of stem cells, but their regenerative potential diminishes
with age. Studying these stem cells in marmosets can provide valuable
insights into reproductive health, fertility treatments, and endometrial
disorders (.2022R1A2B5B01002541).
T-161
Serial Intravascular Labeling Suggests a Quiescent Near-Term Decidua
in the Non-Human Primate Model. Jessica Vazquez, Ann Mitzey,
Thaddeus Golos, Aleksandar Stanic∗. University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, United States.
Introduction: The decidual immunome plays an important role
in establishing and maintaining a healthy pregnancy. Although
immunologically unique, the decidual immunome is dynamic, changing
composition throughout gestation. Immune cell trafficking across gestation
is an understudied area of decidual immunology. We recently reported on
the application of serial intravascular labeling to understand leukocyte
traffic in the non-pregnant endometrium and early pregnant non-human
primate decidua. Here, we extend our observations into late pregnant
decidua, providing more insights into leukocyte traffic in the decidua
across primate pregnancy.
Methods: Two non-pregnant, 4 early pregnant (~gestational day (gd) 37)
and 3 late pregnant (gd 155, term = gd 165) rhesus macaques (Macaca
mulatta) were infused with 100 υg/kg bw of AF647-conjugated (at 6h),
AF555-conjugated (at 2h), and 60 υg/kg body weight of AF488-conjugated
(at 5 min) αCD45 antibodies before tissue collection. Endometrial
and decidual mononuclear cells (MCs) were isolated by mechanical
(GentleMACS) and enzymatic (Collagenase, DNAse) disruption and
labeled with antibodies against known markers for B, T, Natural Killer
(NK), and myeloid cells, including ex vivo labeling with αCD45-BUV395
for identification of all leukocytes. Data was acquired using the Cytek
Aurora spectral cytometer, unmixed in SpectroFlo (v3.0), and analyzed
using FlowJo (v10.9). Vascular status amongst all CD45-BUV395+
leukocytes was determined as continuously circulating (CC) or unlabeled
cells as tissue localized (TL) (Potter et al, STM, 2021).
Results: We found that the proportion of TL decidual leukocytes
increased in the late pregnant decidua compared to the non-pregnant
endometrium (p <0.0001) and early pregnant decidua (p = 0.0016). We
found an increase in the proportion of TL T and B cells in late pregnant
decidua compared to early pregnant decidua (p = 0.0016 and 0.0451,
respectively). Building on our previous observations, we found that
most NK cells in late pregnant decidua were TL (97.067% ± 1.026),
an increase compared to early pregnant decidua (72.15% ± 10.050, p =
0.0599). In the myeloid compartment, we found a dramatic increase in
the proportion of HLADR+DCSIGN+ cells in late pregnant decidua (p =
0.0001), with the majority being TL (97.37% ± 3.044), suggesting local
expansion of these cells.
Conclusion: Contrary to expectations, data indicate that most leukocytes
in the near-term decidua are TL. This is likely explained by the lack of
labor experienced by the pregnant dams, as it has been suggested that the
initiation of parturition (an inflammatory process) leads to recruitment
of immune cells into the decidua. Future studies will have to take into
consideration the initiation of labor to better understand how immune
cells traffic to the decidua during this critical time.
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 155A
T-163
Differential Early Residency Programming Shapes trNK Heterogeneity.
Morgan Greene†, Rebecca Asiimwe, Emma Wright, Markayla Bell, Daniel
Epstein, Shawn C Little, Holly E Richter, Paige M Porrett∗. University
of Alabama at Birmingham Marnix E. Heersink School of Medicine,
Birmingham, AL, United States.
Introduction: Uterine natural killer (NK) cells are essential for
reproductive success and differ from conventional NK (cNK) cells due to
their roles in spiral artery formation and placentation. Three tissue resident
NK (trNK) subsets have been identified in both pregnant and non-pregnant
uterine tissues, but the mechanisms driving their diversity remain unclear.
We hypothesized that trNK cells utilize a residency program similar to
CD8+ tissue-resident memory (Trm) cells, with specific transcription
factors (TFs) driving trNK functional diversity.
Methods: Endometrial biopsies were collected during the secretory
phase from six volunteers. CD45+ cells (n=41,722) were isolated via
fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) and subjected to 10x dropletbased
single-cell RNA sequencing. Quality control was performed using
SoupX and Scrublet, followed by clustering with Seurat to generate a
dataset of 14,349 endometrial NK (eNK) cells in 12 clusters. Differentially
expressed genes were identified using MAST, and Trm residency signature
enrichment was assessed by gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA).
Spearman correlation analysis was used to explore relationships between
key TFs (NR4A2, EGR1, FOS, JUNB), integrins, and non-cytotoxic
effector functions of trNK subsets.
Results: We observed two major groupings within the eNK clusters,
defined by the expression of the residency-promoting integrin ITGA1.
Among the ITGA1- clusters, we identified an FCGR3A+ cluster resembling
cNK cells and an FCGR3A- cluster enriched for the Trm residency
signature, suggesting a founder trNK lineage that has not yet upregulated
ITGA1. The trNK clusters were ITGA1+ and we identified three distinct
trNK subsets. When assessing the expression of the Trm early residency
program, we found subset-specific expression of TFs NR4A2 and EGR1
in trNK1, FOS in trNK2, and JUNB in trNK3, suggesting these TFs are
important drivers of subset specification. Principal component analysis
(PCA) identified non-cytotoxic effector function and active differentiation
as major sources of variation. GSEA confirmed that both components
were enriched for the Trm residency signature (NES 1.78, 1.68; p<0.01),
supporting their role in the acquisition of residency. Spearman correlation
showed that NR4A2, EGR1, and FOS were moderately correlated with
integrins (ITGAX, ITGAD), while JUNB had no integrin correlation.
EGR1 had stronger association to non-cytotoxic effector molecules
(GNLY, CSF1), as did JUNB with CCL5, highlighting distinct TF roles
in trNK specialization.
Conclusion: These findings suggest that early residency programming
shapes trNK heterogeneity and functional diversity, enhancing our
understanding of trNK specialization and their role in reproductive
immunology.
T-164
The Role of Bone Morphogenetic Protein Signaling in Trophectoderm
Specification. Jessica C Ly†,1,2 Ian McNellis†,1,2 Jaroslav Slamecka∗,1,2
Kaitlyn Kim†,1,2 Jasmine Temple†,1,2 Francesca Soncin∗,1,2 Heidi C
Andersen∗,1,2 Mana M Parast∗.1,2 1University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, CA, United States; 2Sanford Consortium for Regenerative Medicine,
La Jolla, CA, United States.
Introduction: Trophectoderm (TE) cells comprise the outer layer
of the blastocyst-stage embryo and plays a key role in implantation.
Abnormalities in TE development during implantation can lead to
miscarriage in as many as 60% of pregnancies. Due to ethical restrictions
on research with human embryos, human pluripotent stem cells (hPSC),
including both naïve and primed hPSC corresponding to pre- and postimplantation
epiblast, respectively, have been used extensively to model
TE development. Bone Morphogenetic Protein-4 (BMP4) has been used
to induce the TE lineage, from both naïve and primed hPSC. However,
the role of BMP4 in TE induction from naïve hPSC remains controversial.
Here, we hypothesize that TE induction from naïve hPSC also requires
BMP4.
Methods: Primed hPSCs (H9 hESCs and a iPSC line 1947P-iPS2) were
converted to naïve hPSCs in HENSM media and TE induction was
performed over 3 days per the Io et al. protocol (Cell Stem Cell, 2021),
using three different conditions for the first 24 hours: with exogenous
BMP4 ([+]BMP4); without exogenous BMP4, ([-]BMP4); and with the
BMP4 inhibitor LDN-193189, ([+]LDN). On day 3, flow cytometry for
TE markers TACSTD2 and ENPEP and single-cell RNA sequencing using
the 10x Genomics platform was performed. Similarly, primed hPSC were
differentiated into TE, using 4 days of BMP4/IWP2 treatment per our own
published protocols, and were subjected to single-cell RNA sequencing.
Results: Following the 3-day TE induction of naïve hPSC, flow cytometry
showed 90.6% ± 2.7%, 1.41% ± 0.8%, and 0.67% ± 0.08% of cells to
be double positive for ENPEP and TACSTD2 in [+]BMP4, [-]BMP4
and [+]LDN conditions, respectively (n=two independent experiments).
TACSTD2, an early TE marker, was expressed in about 15.3% ± 2.4% of
[-]BMP4 cells, compared to 99.5% ± 0.09% in the [+]BMP4, while [+]
LDN cells were only 1.7% ± 0.3% positive for this marker alone. Singlecell
RNA-seq showed low expression of a few early TE markers, such as
GATA2/3, TFAP2A/C, and HAND1, in the [-]BMP4 condition; however,
these and other TE markers, such as NR2F2, KRT7 or VGLL1, were more
highly expressed in the [+]BMP4 condition. In the [+] LDN cells, no
TE markers were detected. Primed hPSC-derived TE cells showed a TE
marker expression profile similar to [+]BMP4 naïve TE cells.
Conclusion: Successful generation of TE from naïve hPSCs requires
BMP4 signaling. Endogenous BMP4 may contribute to the initiation
of TE induction from naïve hPSCs, but exogenous BMP4 is needed for
complete differentiation. Future studies will focus on comparing BMP4-
based induction of TE from primed vs. naïve hPSC, to determine the
mechanism(s) through which this growth factor specifies this lineage
from both pre- and post-implantation epiblast.
T-165
Advanced Maternal Age Impacts Mitochondrial Gene Expression
in Human Blastocoel Fluid. Caroline Smith†,1 Jen Matucha,2 Hannah
Archer,1 Sarayu Bethi†,1 T. Arthur Chang,3 Rich Kordus,4 Lisa Green,4
Renee J. Chosed∗.1 1University of South Carolina School of Medicine
Greenville, Greenville, SC, United States; 2Ovation Fertility, Carmel, IN,
United States; 3University of Texas Health Science Center San Antonio, San
Antonio, TX, United States; 4Prisma Health, Greenville, SC, United States.
Introduction: In vitro fertilization (IVF) is the leading assisted
reproductive technology for patients affected by infertility. Women 35
years or older, deemed advanced maternal age (AMA), have a higher
risk for infertility and subsequently a decreased success rate with IVF
treatment. Preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidy (PGT-A) of IVF
embryos is used to assess ploidy status yet this screening has not been
shown to improve implantation rates. This study aims to identify potential
mitochondrial mRNA biomarkers in human blastocoel fluid-conditioned
media from IVF embryos to better predict embryo implantation outcomes.
Methods: Blastocoel fluid-conditioned media was collected from 58 IVF
embryos of varying ploidy status and maternal age following preservation
on day 5 of development. Groups consisted of 30 aneuploid embryos with
complete chromosome deletions or duplications with AMA (advanced
maternal age) mothers, 20 euploid embryos with AMA mothers, and
8 successfully implanted euploid embryos with varying aged mothers
(average age of 34.67). Samples were pooled into groups of 8 or 10 and
RNA was purified. cDNA was synthesized from RNA and RT-qPCR was
used to evaluate expression of previously identified mitochondrial genes
NOA1, DNAJC19, and MT-ND5 (TaqMan Assays, ThermoFisher). The
18S gene was used as a housekeeping control gene for all RT-qPCR
studies.
Results: Our results showed reduced relative expression of mitochondrial
genes NOA1 and DNAJC19 in blastocoel fluid from aneuploid AMA
embryos when compared to euploid AMA embryos. Similarly, both
AMA groups (aneuploid and euploid) show reduced relative expression
of NOA1, DNAJC19, and MT-ATP8 compared to blastocoel fluidconditioned
media from successfully implanted (non-AMA) embryos.
Conclusion: Reduced mitochondrial gene expression in aneuploid
and euploid AMA blastocoel fluid-conditioned media samples when
156A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
compared to media from successfully implanted embryos may indicate
an altered mitochondrial function in embryos from AMA mothers. This
altered gene expression may suggest that reduced mitochondrial gene
expression is associated with an embryo competency decline with age that
is independent of embryo ploidy status. These findings further strengthen
the potential to use these mRNAs to evaluate capability for successful
embryo implantation to improve implantation outcomes.
T-166
Ensemble Deep Learning Models Trained on Time-Lapse Imaging
Data to Predict Successful Clinical Pregnancy and Embryo Euploidy.
Ryo Maekawa,1,2 Isao Tamura,2 Hitomi Takasaki,2 Norihiro Sugino.2 1Nara
Medical University, Kashihara, Japan; 2Yamaguchi University Graduate
School of Medicine, Ube, Japan.
Introduction: Recent studies have reported the use of deep learning
models in selecting viable embryos during embryo growth using timelapse
imaging. However, existing studies have limitations, such as
including embryos that were not transferred or mixing single and multiple
embryo transfer cases. Some approaches rely on subjective interpretation
of morphological and morphokinetic features, leading to embryologist-toembryologist
and within-embryologist variabilities. Additionally, some
studies, including those predicting embryo aneuploidy, used snapshot
images for prediction, which restricts the potential of deep learning in
embryo selection.
Methods: This retrospective study analyzed time-lapse videos of 2,494
embryos with clinical pregnancy outcomes (defined as confirmed
gestational sacs) and 1,645 embryos with karyotype outcomes examined
by preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidy (PGT-A). All transfers
were performed as single embryo transfers. Two deep learning models
were trained: the clinical pregnancy (CP) model, which predicted the
probability of clinical pregnancy, and the euploid (EP) model, which
predicted the probability of euploidy confirmed by PGT-A, using timelapse
video sequences and patient ages. The models’ performances were
evaluated using the average area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver
operating characteristic curve. Subsequently, an ensemble model was
created by combining predictions from ten individual models in both the
CP and EP models.
Results: The CP model showed an AUC of 0.670 with a 90th percentile
range of 0.6557-0.6828 in predicting clinical pregnancy, while the
EP model showed an AUC of 0.672 with a 90th percentile range of
0.6585-0.6840 in predicting embryo euploidy. The ensembled CP model
demonstrated an improved AUC of 0.704, while the ensembled EP model
showed an AUC of 0.716.
Conclusion: The deep learning models, CP and EP, provide valuable
insights for reproductive health providers in prioritizing embryos for
transfer. The CP model has the potential to increase pregnancy rates in
patients undergoing assisted reproductive technology, while the EP model
can help reduce miscarriages caused by embryo aneuploidy. These models
offer an objective, data-driven approach, minimizing the variability that
comes from subjective interpretation by embryologists, thereby enhancing
the embryo selection process.
T-167
Exploring Maternal Inflammation and Its Proteomic Signatures as
Indicators of Spontaneous Preterm Birth Risk. Oluwanifewa Laleye†,1
Raphaella Jackson†,1 Jia Dai Mi†,1 Andrew H Shennan∗,1 Natasha
Hezelgrave†,1 Joan Camunas-Soler∗,2 Morten Rasmussen∗,2 Rachel M
Tribe∗.1 1King’s College London, London, United Kingdom; 2Mirvie Inc,
South San Francisco, CA, United States.
Introduction: Early identification of pregnancies at risk for spontaneous
preterm birth (sPTB) remains a key area for improvement to enable
better management of these pregnancies. Advances in high-throughput
sequencing and predictive modelling methods, particularly those
integrating multiomic data, allows us to develop diagnostic tools for
assessing sPTB risk. These approaches allow a shift from single to multimarker
panels to offer a more comprehensive assessment of sPTB risk.
Inflammation plays a critical role in pregnancy and is a major contributor
to PTB. Therefore, leveraging the role of inflammatory proteome as a
predictor may allow better understanding of sPTB risk. Previous research,
using the Mirvie RNA platform, has identified 25 cfRNA transcripts with
the ability to predict sPTB risk. This study aims to assess if the integration
of inflammation-related proteomic data with cell-free RNA (cfRNA)
improves sPTB risk prediction. We hypothesise that this multiomic
approach will enhance the prediction of sPTB risk compared to using
cfRNA/proteomic data in isolation.
Methods: Maternal blood plasma samples (n = 141; sPTB <35 weeks,
n = 47; Term, n = 94) were collected between 16-24 weeks of gestation
from the INSIGHT cohort. Term birth controls included both high-risk
and low-risk pregnancies, matched to sPTB cases in a 2:1 ratio. The
Olink Explore 384 Inflammation panel was used for targeted protein
profiling, and differential protein expression was assessed using a Welch
T-test (p-value <0.05), allowing for protein inclusion in the model. Tests
comparing all sPTB vs. all term and sPTB vs. low-risk term controls
collectively identified 25 inflammation-related proteins. A logistic
regression model was applied and validated using leave-one-out crossvalidation
(LOOCV), with two models developed: one based solely on
proteomic data and another integrating both cfRNA and proteomic data.
Results: The proteomic-only model achieved an area under the curve
(AUC-ROC) of 0.70 (95% CI: 0.60-0.78), with 17 inflammation-related
proteins involved in discriminating sPTB risk. Inflammatory proteins
such as PGF, COL9A1, CST7, AGER, and MMP1 emerged as key
contributors to the model. The integrated cfRNA-proteomic model yielded
a significantly higher AUC-ROC of 0.82 (95% CI: 0.74-0.89). Overall,
the model highlighted biomarkers implicated in collagen and extracellular
matrix pathways.
Conclusion: The integration of cfRNA and protein markers offers a
non-invasive, multiomic approach to improving the prediction of sPTB
risk. While inflammatory proteins alone demonstrate moderate predictive
performance, a combined multiomic model showed improved accuracy.
This suggests potential in multiomic markers to identify sPTB risk.
T-168
Applying Histopathology Foundation Model-Enhanced Neural
Networks to Ovarian Tumor Tissue Microarray Images for Tumor
Characterization. Tina Yi Jin Hsieh†,1 Shih-Yen Lin,1 Allison Vitonis,2
Kathryn Terry,2 Kun-Hsing Yu∗,1 Naoko Sasamoto∗.2 1Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA, United States; 2Brigham Women’s Hospital, Boston,
MA, United States.
Introduction: While most deep-learning histopathology studies use
whole slide image (WSI) for detailed spatial and heterogeneity analysis,
tissue microarray (TMA) offers a cost-effective, high-throughput
alternative, albeit with potential limitations in capturing spatial details.
Our study bridges this gap by applying foundation model-based features
to hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained ovarian tumor TMA images and
train neural networks for ovarian tumor characterization.
Methods: We employed 1,140 TMA cores from 398 patients with invasive
epithelial ovarian cancer in the New England Case-Control study to train
our neural network models. We first de-arrayed TMAs using QuPath
and custom scripts, dividing each TMA core into smaller tiles at 20X
magnification. A set of 768-dimensional imaging features was then
extracted from each tile using a state-of-the-art pan-cancer pathology
foundation model (CHIEF). Leveraging these features, we constructed
neural network models for both slide-level classification (via multilayer
perceptron) and core-level classification (Attention-Based Deep Multiple
Instance Learning; ABMIL). We assessed their performance in three
crucial diagnositic tasks: 1) classifying OC histotypes; 2) classifying OC
grades, and 2) classifying stages. We evaluated each task using patientstratified
K-fold cross-validation, and we reported the macro-averaged
area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) scores
with one-versus-rest binarization.
Results: The ovarian cancer patients included in this analysis were 64%
high-grade serous (HGS) subtype, 59% Stage III and above, and 80%
high grade. Our model, trained on slide/core-level predictions while
accounting for individual patients, achieved an AUC of 0.80 for accurately
determining HGS tumors based on H&E image features, AUC=0.76
for endometrioid tumors, and AUC=0.82 for clear cell tumors. It also
Thursday Posters
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 157A
distinguished low-to-moderate grade from high-grade ovarian tumors
with an AUC=0.85, and early stage (Stage I & II) cases from advanced
stage cases with an AUC=0.79. These results were comparable to WSItrained
models, demonstrating the robustness of our TMA-based approach
despite less spatial information, highlighting its potential for efficient and
cost-effective predictive modeling.
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that TMA can be used to train
deep-learning models to effectively classify ovarian tumor subtype,
grade, and stage. Future work will focus on improving performance in
underrepresented classes through weighted random sampling techniques
and integrating multi-modal data to enhance prognostic prediction.
T-169
Validation of an Explainable AI Tool for Perinatal Morbidity Risk
Stratification in Fetal Growth Restriction. Sara E Post†,1 Savvy
Benipal†,1 Ariel Eastburn†,2 Julia Michels†,1 Vyshnavy Balendra†,3 Mark
Yandell,1 Raquel Zimmerman†,1 Edgar J Hernandez,1 Nathan R Blue∗.1
1University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, United States; 2University of
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, United States; 3Saint James
School of Medicine, ., Anguilla.
Introduction: Patients with a diagnosis of fetal growth restriction (FGR)
suffer from considerable prognostic uncertainty, as most fetuses with FGR
do not experience any morbidity, yet still undergo intensive antenatal
monitoring and carefully timed delivery. Traditional modeling approaches
to risk stratification have not yielded meaningful improvements.
Probabilistic graphical models (PGMs) are a form of “explainable artificial
intelligence” which transparently quantify complex interactions among
multiple variables, making them particularly useful for risk stratification.
Our objective was to externally test a PGM our group developed for
prediction of composite perinatal morbidity.
Methods: We analyzed data from a retrospective cohort of 443 births who
underwent obstetric ultrasounds at our institution from May to September
2024. A previously derived PGM, which included FGR along with 12
other variables, was applied to these data to generate probability estimates
for a composite of perinatal morbidity, defined by any of the following:
stillbirth, NICU admission >7 days, hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy or
mechanical ventilation. A receiver operating characteristics curve (ROC)
was produced to assess the performance of PGM probability estimates in
prediction of composite perinatal morbidity, with the primary outcome
being the area under the ROC Curve (AUC).
Results: Composite perinatal morbidity occurred in 8.4% (n=37) of the
cohort. A prenatal diagnosis of FGR occurred in 7.0% while 5.4% were
large for gestational age. The median PGM risk estimate was 6.0% (IQR
3.5-12.7). Most deliveries occurred at term (88.7%, n=393), and 11.3%
(n=50) preterm. Of the patients in the cohort, 7.2% (n=32) had pregestational
diabetes mellitus and 10.8% (n=48) had a hypertensive disorder
of pregnancy. The PGM had good overall prediction of composite perinatal
morbidity and mortality, with an AUC of 0.83 (95% CI 0.73-0.89). The
optimal threshold was a PGM probability estimate of 13%, which had a
sensitivity of 78.4% (61.8-90.2), specificity of 79.1% (74.8-82.9), positive
predictive value of 25.4% (17.8-34.5) and negative predictive value of
97.6 (95.3-98.9).
Conclusion: The use of a personalized risk stratification tool using
explainable AI had good overall prediction of perinatal morbidity and
mortality when externally tested on a cohort at a single institution.
Although larger scale validation is needed, PGMs show promise
to improve risk stratification through personalized, transparent risk
estimation.
T-170
Exploring Barriers and Safety Concerns in Clinical Research
Participation for Underrepresented Populations. Estefania Ferrer,
Noralbis Barrientos, Anika Heuberger, Deepthi S Varma, Kylie Finkelstein,
Carl J Pepine, Adetola Louis-Jacques. University of Florida., Gainesville,
FL, United States.
Introduction: Diverse participation is critical to ensuring that clinical
research yields generalizable findings. Our objectives are: 1. to explore
barriers faced during participation in the WARRIOR trial, 2. to understand
safety concerns about clinical research, and 3. to identify strategies to
address these barriers and safety concerns raised by racial and ethnic
underrepresented women in research.
Methods: Nineteen semi-structured virtual interviews were conducted
in English and Spanish. Women from underrepresented racial and ethnic
backgrounds were recruited from the WARRIOR study, a cardiovascular
disease secondary prevention trial. The Social Ecological Model was used
as a framework. Interviews were recorded and transcribed. A deductive
content analysis approach was utilized for data analysis using ATLAS.
tiTM software. In the first coding cycle, a consensus-based method was
applied to develop a code list used for all transcripts. In the second coding
cycle, similar codes were categorized to identify recurring themes and
subthemes related to barriers to research participation, participants’ safety
concerns, and their proposed solutions.
Results: Most of the women found the study to be accommodating,
with flexible scheduling options and responsive communication.
However, two main barriers were still noted: 1. transportation challenges
including driving to the facility, travel time and associated expenses;
2. time conflicts, such as inability to schedule on same-day of existing
appointments or not having time to participate in in-person activities. Most
participants did not express personal safety concerns about participation in
clinical research, but they acknowledged that community concerns around
DNA cloning, privacy breaches, potential harm, and the fear of being
treated as “guinea pigs” may deter involvement, especially given historical
mistrust. Participants emphasized the need for research discussion and
recruitment in clinical settings with trusted healthcare providers. Most
participants preferred being recruited for research in healthcare settings.
However, some were open to recruitment in community spaces, such as
health education fairs. They also stressed the importance of providing
enough compensation to cover expenses due to participation.
Conclusion: Addressing barriers and safety concerns through targeted
and community informed strategies could increase inclusivity in clinical
research, ultimately improving representation and generalizability of
research findings.
T-171
Maternal Electronic-Cigarette Vaping Exposure Exaggerates Arterial
Ischemic Brain Injury via Disrupting miR-30c-5p/Neurod1 Axis in
Neonatal Offspring. Yong Li, Yanyan Zhang, Rongjun Yu, Jiazichao Tu,
Jia Tian, Siyi Jiang, Wansu Yu, Lubo Zhang, Daliao Xiao. Loma Linda
University, Loma Linda, CA, United States.
Introduction: The use of electronic nicotine delivery systems
(e-cigarettes) has rapidly increased, particularly among youth and young
pregnant women. Our previous studies demonstrated that maternal
e-cigarette (e-cig) exposure programs an ischemic-sensitive phenotype
in the neonatal rat brain. However, the underlying mechanisms remain
unclear.We tested the hypothesis that maternal e-cigarette vaping
induces an aberrant miR-30c-5p/Neurod1 axis in the neonatal rat brain,
contributing to enhanced brain infarction following arterial ischemic
brain injury.
Methods: Pregnant rats were exposed to e-cigarette aerosol from
gestational day 4 (E4) to day 20 (E20). A middle cerebral artery occlusion
(MCAO) procedure was performed to induce arterial ischemic brain injury
in postnatal day 10 (P10) rat pups. We employed microRNA sequencing,
qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC)
assays to evaluate the miR-30c-5p/Neurod1 axis in the neonatal rat brain.
TTC staining was used to measure infarction size post-MCAO.
Results: Compared to controls, maternal e-cigarette exposure significantly
increased infarction size in the brains of male pups subjected to MCAO.
MicroRNA sequencing, qRT-PCR, and Western blotting revealed
elevated miR-30c-5p levels and reduced Neurod1 mRNA and protein
levels in the brains of pups exposed to e-cigarettes. Knockdown of
Neurod1 exacerbated brain injury in MCAO pups. In vitro RISC studies
indicated that miR-30c-5p directly targets Neurod1 mRNA. Furthermore,
intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of a miR-30c-5p mimic
decreased Neurod1 expression and increased infarction size in the
neonatal rat brain after MCAO, mirroring the effects of e-cigarette
158A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
exposure. Importantly, inhibition of miR-30c-5p mitigated the increase in
infarction size and reversed e-cigarette-induced suppression of Neurod1
in neonatal rat brains.
Conclusion: Maternal e-cigarette exposure disrupts the physiological
miR-30c-5p/Neurod1 axis in the developing brains of offspring, potentially
contributing to an ischemic-sensitive phenotype in response to arterial
ischemic challenges. This axis may represent a promising therapeutic
target for interventions aimed at mitigating ischemic brain injury.
T-172
Satisfaction, Pain Severity and Bleeding Duration in Early Medication
Abortion by Ultrasound Defined Stages of Pregnancy. Frida Gyllenberg,1
Karin Brandell†,2 Tagrid; Jar-Allah†,3 Helena Kopp-Kallner,4 Helena
Hognert∗,3 Oskari M. Heikinheimo∗,1 Kristina Gemzell-Danielsson∗,2
Janina Kaislasuo.1 1University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital,
Helsinki, Finland; 2Karolinska Institutet and Karolinska University
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden; 3Sahlgrenska University Hospital and
University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; 4Karolinska Institutet
and Danderyd Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
Introduction: To determine if satisfaction, pain severity and bleeding
duration of very early medication abortion (VEMA) differs between
ultrasound defined stages of pregnancy.
Methods: In this secondary analysis of a randomized clinical trial,
evaluating efficacy of VEMA before confirmation of pregnancy location
(Brandell et al., NEJM 2024, in press), we included patients with known
abortion outcomes of complete abortion, incomplete abortion, or ongoing
pregnancy. Stages of pregnancy were defined as 1) Pregnancy of unknown
location with empty uterus, 2) Probable intrauterine pregnancy with
intrauterine sac without yolk sac, 3) Confirmed intrauterine pregnancy
with visible yolk sac and 4) Confirmed intrauterine pregnancy with
embryonic pole. Satisfaction was measured on a 0-6 scale with higher
values for higher satisfaction, pain severity on NRS 0-10 scale with
higher values for more pain, and bleeding duration in days. Pregnancies
with visible embryonic pole was held reference group in comparisons.
Results: A total of 1253 patients were included: 18% (n = 224) with
pregnancy of unknown location, 38% (n = 476) with probable intrauterine
pregnancy, 24% (n = 301) with visible yolk sac and 20% (n = 252) with
visible embryonic pole. Satisfaction was high in all groups (mean±SD
5.5±1.0, 5.6±0.7, 5.3±1.0 and 5.4±0.9, respectively), and significantly
higher for probable intrauterine pregnancy compared to pregnancy with
visible embryonic pole (p= 0.001). Pain scores were lower the earlier
the pregnancy (5.2±2.3, 5.4±2.3, 5.5±2.4 and 6.22±2.39, respectively),
all significant at <0.001. Bleeding duration was shorter the earlier the
pregnancy (4.9±3.2, 5.8±3.2, 6.6±5.2 and 7.5±5.3, respectively), all
significant at <0.001.
Conclusion: Pain experience was less severe and bleeding shorter the
earlier a pregnancy was terminated, while satisfaction was highest for
probable intrauterine pregnancies, thus supporting early medication
abortion.
T-173
Antenatal Testing Education (ANTE) - Assessing Health Education and
Health Literacy in High Risk Pregnant Population. Jessica Shaker†,
Abigail Winder, Marina Feffer, Hannah Pope, Mary Murphy, Jameela
Media, Mirelle Dawoud, Ann Lal∗. Loyola University, Maywood, IL,
United States.
Introduction: Antenatal testing is an increasingly common and important
component of prenatal care. It is primarily utilized to reduce stillbirth in
certain high-risk conditions. Indications for and consequences of antenatal
testing are often difficult to understand, especially for patients. The
objective of the study is to assess patient perception and health literacy
of antenatal testing.
Methods: This is a prospective study regarding patient perception of
antenatal testing assessed through a survey. Inclusion criteria includes
pregnant English-speaking patients >18 years old receiving prenatal
care at Loyola University Medical Center (LUMC), attending at least
one antenatal testing appointment, gestational age 32-38 weeks, delivery
at LUMC A one-time survey was administered to patients during their
antenatal testing visit. The survey comprised of nine questions surrounding
health literacy of biophysical profile and included questions about
demographics and patient satisfaction. Antenatal knowledge was measured
as an overall score per patient, computed as the percentage of questions
answered correctly. Differences in scores were assessed via one-way
ANOVA testing or wilcoxon-type test for trend
Results: A total of 284 pregnant patients were approached and 65 patients
declined to participate. The average health literacy score was 71.5% (SD
16.5) (n=219). Among patients who identify as Hispanic, total antenatal
knowledge scores were slightly lower (68%, SD 17.0) than those that
identify as non-Hispanic (76%, SD 14.7), p-value <0.001. Among varying
education levels, as education increased, total score increases significantly
(p-value: <0.001). We assessed health literacy scores between different
providers groups; there was no significant difference in health literacy
scores (p=0.22). Of the questions regarding barriers to antenatal testing,
25% (n=191) reported that coming to the weekly ultrasounds were difficult
for them, 4% (n=181) considered the test invasive and 7% (n=188)
considered the test stressful for their mental health. 89% (n=188) stated
they felt the doctors explained the reason for the weekly ultrasound and
92% (n= 182) of respondents stated they enjoyed the weekly ultrasounds.
Conclusion: Overall, our study showed that patients were able to
answer 71.5% of health literacy questions correctly regarding antenatal
testing. Our patients also reported that they understood the reason for the
ultrasound, which speaks to excellent counseling by our physician groups.
The majority of patients reporting they enjoyed the weekly ultrasounds
and did not find them difficult to attend.
T-174
Maternal Obesity and Elective Inductions of Labor in Nulliparous
Patients: A Multicenter Cohort Study. Minhazur Sarker†,1 Dana
Canfield†,1 Grace Noon†,1 Gregory Poorman,2 Barbara Levy,2 Patrick
Ed,2 Ukachi Emeruwa†,1 Cynthia Gyamfi-Bannerman,1 Leah Lama∗.1
1Univ of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, United States; 2Dorsata,
Arlington, VA, United States.
Introduction: We aimed to investigate whether maternal pre-pregnancy
BMI is associated with adverse outcomes in nulliparous women
undergoing elective induction of labor (eIOL).
Methods: We queried a multicenter outpatient electronic medical record
to perform a retrospective cohort study of nulliparous women undergoing
eIOL between 39w0d to 40w6d from January 2017 to June 2024. To
investigate the relationship between obesity and eIOL, we created multiple
pre-pregnancy BMI cohorts: 1) 18.5-24.99, 2) 25-25.99, 3) BMI 30-
34.99, and 4) BMI greater than or equal to 35. We excluded pregnancies
complicated by multifetal gestation, oligohydramnios, hypertensive
disorders, diabetes requiring treatment, autoimmune disorders, or fetal
growth restriction. The primary outcome of interest was the rate of
cesarean delivery (CD). Chi-square, ANOVA, and Mann-Whitney U tests
were performed to determine statistical significance, and a multivariable
logistic regression determined the strength of associations. All statistical
analyses were performed on SPSS version 29.
Results: Of the 84,156 eligible patients, 574 met our inclusion criteria
with 206 (35.9%) BMI 18.5-24.99, 184 (32.1%) BMI 25-29.99, 100
(17.4%) BMI 30-34.99, and 84 (14.6%) BMI greater than or equal to 35.
There were no significant baseline differences noted. With eIOL, CD rates
were increased only for pre-pregnancy BMI greater than or equal to 35,
though the difference was not statistically significant (25.2% for 18-24.99,
27.2% for 25-29.99, 25.0% for 30-34.99, and 39.3% for greater than or
equal to 35, p=0.09. After adjusting for confounders including maternal
age and diet-controlled gestational diabetes and using BMI 18.5-24.99
as the base comparator, eIOL was associated with CD in pre-pregnancy
BMI greater than or equal to 35 (adjusted OR 1.93 (95% CI 1.11-3.34).
There were no significant differences noted in the indications for CD or
other adverse outcomes.
Conclusion: Although similar to trends seen in CD rates with maternal
obesity in the overall population, this specific insight into the nulliparous
population undergoing eIOL can be incorporated into counseling for
nulliparous pregnancies complicated by maternal obesity.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 159A
Friday Posters
T-175
Elective Inductions of Labor in Nulliparous Patients with Diet-
Controlled Gestational Diabetes: A Multicenter Cohort Study.
Minhazur Sarker†,1 Dana Canfield†,1 Grace Noonan†,1 Gregory Poorman,2
Barbara Levy,2 Patrick Edmundson,2 Ukachi Emeruwa†,1 Cynthia Gyamfi-
Bannerman,1 Leah Lamale-Smith∗.1 1Univ of California San Diego, San
Diego, CA, United States; 2Dorsata, Arlington, VA, United States.
Introduction: We aimed to investigate whether elective induction of labor
(eIOL) is associated with adverse outcomes in nulliparous pregnancies
complicated by diet-controlled gestational diabetes (GDMA1).
Methods: We queried a multicenter outpatient electronic medical record
to perform a retrospective cohort study of nulliparous pregnancies
complicated by GDMA1 undergoing eIOL between 39w0d and 40w6d
or awaiting spontaneous labor after 39w0d from January 2017 to June
2024. We excluded pregnancies complicated by multifetal gestation,
oligohydramnios, hypertensive disorders, diabetes requiring treatment,
autoimmune disorders, or fetal growth restriction. The primary outcome
was the rate of cesarean delivery. Chi-square, student’s T, and Mann-
Whitney U tests were performed to determine statistical significance, and
a multivariable logistic regression determined the strength of associations.
All statistical analyses were performed on SPSS version 29.
Results: Of the 84,156 eligible patients, 298 met our inclusion criteria
with 185 (62.1%) that awaited spontaneous labor and 113 (37.9%)
undergoing eIOL. Patient’s undergoing eIOL had a higher baseline prepregnancy
BMI but otherwise no significant baseline differences. Among
GDMA1 pregnancies, although cesarean rate was higher with eIOL than
spontaneous labor (29.2% vs 22.2%, p=0.17), the difference was not
statistically significant. After adjusting for confounders including maternal
age and pre-pregnancy BMI, although we noted an increased odds of
cesarean with eIOL, this finding did not reach statistical significance
(adjusted OR 1.52 (95% CI 0.78-2.95). Aside from cesarean for failed
IOL, there were no significant differences noted in other adverse outcomes.
Conclusion: Although our findings suggest that eIOL in nulliparous
GDMA1 pregnancies are without increased cesarean delivery rates, a
larger sample size is needed to further characterize this association.
T-176
Identifying the Role of Transthyretin Aggregation in Preeclampsia.
Lanie G Wang†, Rose M Pedretti†, David M Owen∗, Christina L Herrera∗,
Lorena Saelices∗. UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, United
States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is a pregnancy-specific vascular
syndrome that emerges after 20 weeks of gestation and is a major cause
of maternal, fetal, and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Despite affecting
2-8% of pregnancies worldwide, PE still lacks reliable early diagnosis
or therapy. Transthyretin (TTR) aggregates have been detected in the
placenta of preeclamptic patients. These aggregates could represent a
causal pathway for preeclampsia. We sought to identify TTR aggregates
in the placenta and maternal plasma as potential biomarkers for improved
preeclampsia prediction. We hypothesized that patients with preeclampsia
would demonstrate higher levels of TTR aggregates in placenta tissue
and plasma.
Methods: Levels of TTR aggregates were measured in both placental
lysates and maternal plasma in patients with or without chronic
hypertension (N=5 in each group). A proprietary peptide detection reagent
was used to quantify TTR aggregates by detecting fluorescent intensity
in an immunodotblot assay and quantifying signal with ImageJ. These
measurements were compared among pregnancies with and without
preeclampsia. TTR aggregates were also extracted from placental tissue
and analyzed by western blot. A subset was imaged with transmission
electron microscopy for amyloid aggregate morphology. A one-tail
Student’s t-test was performed to compare fluorescent signals.
Results: We identified elevated levels of aggregated TTR species in the
placentas and plasma at delivery in patients with preeclampsia (N=4) as
compared to patients without preeclampsia (N=6), regardless of chronic
hypertension status. The fluorescent signal of aggregated TTR species
in preeclamptic placentas was 1.57 times higher than in those without
preeclampsia ( 3.9±0.0 vs. 2.5±1.0, P = 0.01). Similarly, the fluorescent
signal in maternal plasma at delivery was, on average, 1.82 times higher
in preeclamptic patients compared to non-preeclamptic plasma (4.2±0.6
vs 2.3±0.6, P<0.001).
Conclusion: Higher levels of aggregated transthyretin observed in
preeclamptic plasma suggests a potential use as a novel biomarker to
predict disease risk. Additional studies are in process to validate the results
of this pilot study using a cohort of ~200 patients undergoing evaluation
for hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.
F-001
Functional Progesterone Withdrawal by Proteolytic Cleavage of
Progesterone Receptor-B. Beverlee Wood†, Soma Chakravarti†, Sarah
Alserhaid, Sam Mesiano∗. Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
OH, United States.
Introduction: In human pregnancy, progesterone (P4) acting via the type
B nuclear P4 receptor (PR-B) in uterine myometrial cells exerts a potent
block to labor, and loss of P4/PR-B activity induces labor. Our previous
studies suggest that site-specific phosphorylation at the serine 344/345
locus (pSer344/345-PR) inhibits the labor blocking actions of P4/PRB.
However, active labor was associated with increased abundance of
pSer344/345 on the PR isoforms in the MW range of the truncated PR-A,
but not on PR-B. This posed a conundrum: why is pSer344/345-PR-B not
detected in term myometrium? The present study suggests that in response
to pSer344/345 PR-B is cleaved to a smaller protein similar to PR-A.
Methods: Immunoblot analyses were performed on lysate derived from
a human myometrial cell line, hTERT-HMA/B, that can be induced to
independently express PR-B and PR-A. Blots were analyzed with 3 PRspecific
antibodies with immunoreactivity to: 1) common sequence in
the PRs (AB-PRtotal); 2) only the B-upstream segment (BUS) unique to
the N-terminal sequence of PR-B (AB-BUS), and 3) the phosphorylated
pSer344/345-PR locus (AB-PR345) locus common to PR-A and PR-B.
In some studies cells were exposed pro-inflammatory stimuli (e.g., IL-1ß)
to mimic inflammation-associated parturition.
Results: In cells expressing both PRs, AB-PRtot detected PR-B and PR-A
and a protein with slightly lower MW than PR-A. The lower molecular
weight protein also was detected by AB-PRtot in cells expressing only PRB,
suggesting that this protein was derived from PR-B. AB-BUS detected
full-length PR-B and a protein with apparent MW of ~41kDa, which is
the predicted MW of the BUS of PR-B. RNA interference confirmed that
BUS was derived from PR-B mRNA. AB-PR345 detected pSer344/345-
PRB in cells expressing only PR-B. Pro-inflammatory stimuli increased
BUS, markedly decreased pSer344/345-PRB and increased abundance
of a pSer344/345-PR immunoreactive protein migrating at a MW slightly
lower than PR-A.
Conclusion: In response to pro-inflammatory stimuli, PR-B is
proteolytically cleaved in human myometrial cells to remove its unique
N-terminal domain (BUS) and this cleavage is dependent on pSer344/345.
The BUS of PR-B contains domains critical for PR-B transcriptional
activity and we propose that this transcriptional activity is necessary for
the P4/PR-B block to labor. In this context the link between inflammation,
pSer344/345 and PR-B cleavage may be a novel mechanism for functional
P4/PR withdrawal to trigger parturition especially in response to proinflammatory
stimuli.
F-002
In Vivo Raman Spectral Analysis of Cervical Remodeling in a
Term Mice Model. Rafay Ahmed,1 Jennifer Herringtin,2 Joseph Afreh,1
Boatwright Naoko,2 Jeff Reese,2 Anita Mahadevan-Jansen∗.1 1Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, TN, United States; 2Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, TN, United States.
Introduction: Cervical biochemical changes during labor is a complex
process and monitoring cervical compositional and structure changes
though non-invasive means is of great importance to predict preterm
birth (PTB). Raman spectroscopy (RS) display a great potential to noninvasively
investigate the alteration in tissues, extracelluar matrix proteins,
lipids, blood as well as hydration during cervical remodeling. Here we
160A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
demonstrate the use of in vivo RS to investigate changes in term model
compared to non-gravid using both fingerprint (FP) and high wavenumber
(HW) regions.
Methods: FP and HW in vivo Raman spectroscopic measurements were
acquired through gravid day-19 and non-gravid mice undergoing through
normal estrous cycle (n=3/group). Raman probe was used to acquire
contact-based point scans on ectocervix in clockwise manner (03 06 09
12 positions) with the aid of speculum to visualize probe location. Later
cervix was excised and RS was performed on fresh ex vivo sample. A
portable RS system consists of spectrograph (Kaiser Optical Systems,
MI), CCD camera (PIXIS: 256 BR, Princeton Instruments, NJ), Dual
excitation laser system 785 nm and 680 nm, fiber optic probe of ~2.1 mm
diameter with ball lens (EmVision, FL). 80 mW and 50 mW laser power
were guided for 5 sec integration for FP and HW respectively. Spectral
processing was performed using customized script in MATLAB 2024.
Results: In vivo RS measurements of cervical tissue revealed multiple
biochemical changes in d19 mice compared to non-gravid. Significant
decrease was found in 1445 cm-1 peak that corresponds to CH2/CH3
deformation, 1303 cm-1 (CH2/CH3 twisting/lipids), ~1251 cm-1 (Amide
III band) and 854 cm-1 (proline). In HW region, we detected an increase
in water content with higher OH compared to non-gravid mice. Decrease
in collagen and protein content is directly related to hydration of cervix
that can dictate net lower collagen concentration with higher hydration.
Conclusion: A dual excitation laser system using single fiber optic probe
can be used for non-invasive in vivo assessment of cervical biochemical
changes that can advance the early diagnosis, prognosis and treatment
of many cervical diseases.
F-003
Vaginal Administration of Live Biotherapeutic Lactobacillus crispatus
CTV-05 in Pregnancy Leads to Increased Bacterial Opsonisation and
Reduced Inflammation. Ryan Laurence Love,1 Erna Bayar,1 Lauren Body,1
Belen Gimeno-Molina,1,2 Maria Carmen Collado,3 Yun S Lee,1 Sherianne
Ng,1 Tom Parks,4 Peter Lee,4 Phillip R Bennett,1 David A MacIntyre,1,5
Lynne Sykes∗.1,2 1March of Dimes European Prematurity Research Centre,
London, United Kingdom; 2The Parasol Foundation Centre for Women’s
Health and Cancer Research, London, United Kingdom; 3Institute of
Agrochemistry and Food Technology-National Research Council (IATACSIC),
Valencia, Spain; 4OSEL Inc., Mountain View, CA, United States;
5Robinson Research Institute, Adelaide, Australia.
Introduction: A vaginal microbiota dominated by L. crispatus
(Community State Type; CST I) is protective against preterm birth (PTB),
whilst both L. iners (CST III) and, high diversity communities (CST IV)
associate with an increased risk. We have previously shown that the live
biotherapeutic containing L. crispatus CTV-05 (LACTIN-V) preferentially
colonises the vagina in patients with CST III and IV and reduces local
cytokine concentrations. The aim of this study was to further characterise
and explore the host:microbe response to LACTIN-V.
Methods: LACTIN-V was administered once daily for five days from
14 weeks gestation, then weekly for six weeks in 62 women at high risk
of PTB. Vaginal swabs were taken pre-treatment and post-treatment,
for analysis of microbial composition using metataxonomic profiling of
bacterial 16S rRNA genes, complement proteins and immunoglobulins
using Luminex immunoassays. Percentage of bacterial opsonisation was
performed using flow cytometry. A matched high-risk cohort who did not
have LACTIN-V served as a control (n=53).
Results: The percentage of vaginal bacteria bound to IgG and IgA
increased following administration of LACTIN-V (IgG; median 66.15%
pre-treatment vs 79.70% post-treatment, p=<0.0001; IgA; median
75.50% vs 86.00%, p=<0.0001). Increased IgG and IgA opsonisation
correlated with decreased cervicovaginal fluid concentrations of free
immunoglobulins (IgG2 [pg/mL]; median 920531 pre-treatment vs
459738 post-treatment, p=0.0170, IgG3 [pg/mL]; median 11282 pretreatment
vs 7141 post-treatment, p=0.0334, Wilcoxon matched-pairs
test), and complement proteins (C3b [ng/mL]; median 5.613 pre-treatment
vs 2.751 post-treatment, p=0.0010, C3a [pg/mL]; median 147.7 pretreatment
vs 109.8 post-treatment, p=0.0243, C1q [ng/mL]; median
0.1676 pre-treatment vs 0.09642 post-treatment, p=0.0148). There were
no significant differences in the matched untreated controls.
Conclusion: Colonisation of L. crispatus with LACTIN-V has
immunomodulatory effects on both the innate and adaptive immune
response within the cervicovaginal niche, leading to immune homeostasis.
These findings support a role of LACTIN-V in the prevention of microbial
induced spontaneous preterm birth.
F-004
A Novel Mouse Newborn Inflammation Model: Protection by
Interleukin-1 Receptor Antagonist Rytvela. Yueyang Wang†,1,2
Kazumasa Fuwa,1 Carla Sosa,1 Alishba Humayun,1 Kelycia Leimert,1
Sylvain Chemtob,3 David Olson.1 1University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB,
Canada; 2The Forth Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University,
Harbin, China; 3Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada.
Introduction: The Fetal Inflammatory Response Syndrome (FIRS) is
triggered by microorganism or alarmin stimulation of the fetal innate
immune system causing a systemic inflammatory response. Neonates with
FIRS have higher rates of complications or even death. Administration
of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a gram-negative bacterial mimic, generates
systemic inflammation. We developed a new low dose LPS-treated
pregnant mouse/newborn model that delivered at term with newborn
complications. Our objective was to test the therapeutic potential of rytvela
(an allosteric antagonist to IL-1β) treatment to the newborn on survival
and organ development.
Methods: Timed-pregnant CD-1 mice were administered either saline
(20 μL, i.p., n=9) or LPS (4 μg, i.p., n=27) on gestational days 16 & 17.
On postnatal day (P)3, the litters were randomly divided into two groups:
saline and rytvela and adjusted litter size to 6 pups. Pups received rytvela
(1 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline q12h from P3-5 (20 μL, s.c.), followed by LPS (3
mg/kg, i.p.) or saline once on P3 and again on P5. On P7, all pups were
euthanized, and the fetal organs were collected. The number and size of the
lung alveoli and the number and length of ileum villi were quantified after
H&E staining using Image J and GraphPad Prism. Statistical analyses:
1- or 2-way ANOVA, p<0.05.
Results: 48% of LPS-treated dams had viable pups on P1. The pups
from LPS-treated dams and had lower body weight compared to pups
from saline-treated dams (1.59±0.21 g, n = 92 vs. 1.77±0.19 g, n = 87,
p<0.0001). 48% of pups (11/23) from saline-treated dams receiving LPS
died by P7, but rytvela administration decreased mortality to 27%(6/22).
Rytvela increased the number of alveoli vs. saline in pups from LPStreated
dams (198±6 vs.166±3 per 100 μm2, p=0.01, n = 5 & 6) and
decreased the size of alveoli (940±95μm2 vs. 1101±47 μm2, p=0.18). No
differences in ileum villi were found.
Conclusion: Most LPS pregnant mouse models cause preterm fetal
death. Our model has a high percentage of live term births and shows
that low dose LPS causes lung damage and possible death by P7. Rytvela
protects the fetus from FIRS by reducing mortality and improving lung
development in the presence of LPS. Rytvela is an excellent candidate
for further development to protect newborns with FIRS.
F-005
The Soluble Interleukin (IL)-6 Receptor is Necessary for IL-6-
Stimulated Production of Inflammatory Mediators in Human Amnion
and Fetal Membranes. Wendy Xu†,1 Kelycia B. Leimert,1 France Cote,2
Sylvain Chemtob,2 David M. Olson∗.1 1University of Alberta, Edmonton,
AB, Canada; 2Universite de Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
Introduction: The role of IL-6 in the control of term and preterm birth
(PTB) is enigmatic. It is necessary for on-time delivery at term in IL-6-
gene-deleted dams and involved in stimulated PTB in mice as evidenced
by inhibition of IL6R by the allosteric receptor antagonist, HSJ633.
Concentrations of IL-6 rise in human amniotic fluid and maternal
serum at delivery at term and preterm. However, administration of
IL-6 to pregnant dams does not induce (PTB) suggesting that IL-6 is an
intermediatory in the generation of proinflammatory cytokines for labor
induction. IL-6 binds to its receptor, and this complex, in turn, binds to
the glycoprotein (gp) 130 in a hexameric complex with a 2:2:2 IL-6/ILScientific
Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 161A
Friday Posters
6R/gp130 stoichiometry in the cell membrane to stimulate activation of
intracellular pathways, STAT3, AKT, and ERK. There are two forms of the
IL-6R, a membrane-bound form (mIL6R) and a trans-signaling pathway
involving the soluble receptor (sIL6R) generated by alternative splicing
or by protein cleavage of the mIL6R. The objective of this work was to
assess the receptor form used in human amnion epithelial cells (AEC) and
full thickness human fetal membrane explants (FME). We hypothesized
that sIL6R is the receptor for IL-6 in AEC and FME.
Methods: AECs and FMEs were prepared for culture from fetal
membranes obtained from pregnant, non-labored women undergoing
elective cesarean section using published protocols. Treatments included
IL-6 (0-100 ng/mL, 6h), with sIL6R (100 ng/mL), with HSJ633 (1μM), or
with sIL6R + HSJ633. Inhibitors were pretreated for 1h. Proinflammatory
mediator protein output and mRNA abundance were monitored in AEC
and FME as was phosphorylation of STAT3, AKT, and ERK in AEC. As
a comparator, the effects of the alarmin, HMGB1 (0-200 ng/mL, 24h),
alone or with HSJ633 were assessed. 1 or 2-way ANOVA, p<0.05.
Results: IL-6 alone had no effect on AEC protein output or mRNA
expression of cytokines or chemokines, but addition of sIL6R to IL-6
stimulated il6, il1, ccl2, and cxcl8. These were attenuated by HSJ633.
IL-6 plus sIL6R stimulated phosphorylation of STAT3, and this was
partially inhibited by HSJ633. IL-6 plus sIL6R did not stimulate cytokines
in FMEs, but increasing concentrations of HMGB1 stimulated cytokine/
chemokine mRNA expression (il-6, ccl2, cxcl10) and protein output (IL-
6, IL-1b, TNF-a, CCL15). All these were inhibited by HSJ633. HMGB1
stimulation of IL-6 and CXCL1 were at least 7-fold greater than for other
cytokines or chemokines.
Conclusion: IL-6 requires sIL6R in AEC to stimulate cytokine expression
via the STAT3 pathway. HMGB1-stimulation of cytokines is inhibited by
HSJ633 suggesting that this effect is IL-6 dependent. We speculate that
HMGB1 also stimulates the expression of sIL6R. The role of IL-6 for
labor may be to amplify cytokine and chemokine expression.
Funding: CIHR
F-006
Fetal Lung Inflammation and Injury with Choriodecidual Ureaplasma
Infection in a Non-Human Primate Model. Sudeshna Tripathy, Meredith
A Kelleher∗. Oregon National Primate Research Center, Beaverton, OR,
United States.
Introduction: Intrauterine infection and inflammation associated with
chorioamnionitis leads to adverse pregnancy outcomes including preterm
birth and bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Choriodecidual Ureaplasma
infection represents an intermediate stage of ascending reproductive
infection, providing a model of infection-driven fetal inflammation,
without direct microbial exposure of the fetus. The current study aims
to evaluate fetal lung inflammation and injury in response to this early
stage Ureaplasma infection.
Methods: Chronically catheterized pregnant rhesus monkeys
received choriodecidual inoculation with sterile media (control, n=4)
or Ureaplasma parvum (UP, n=4; Serovar 1, 105 CFU/mL) starting
at 118±1dGA and repeated every 5 days until C-section delivery at
136±2dGA (Term=167d). Fetal lung tissues were collected at the time of
delivery and frozen or inflated and formalin fixed. Expression of genes and
proteins involved in lung inflammation, angiogenesis and morphogenesis,
extracellular matrix proteins, elastin, and collagen fibers were determined
by RT-qPCR, multiplex ELISA, western blot and histological staining.
Statistical significance (p<0.05) was assessed by Student’s t-test or Mann-
Whitney U-test after testing for normality (Shapiro-Wilk).
Results: All animals were negative for UP in the amniotic fluid (AF),
indicating that microbial invasion of the amniotic cavity (MIAC) did
not occur. However, UP fetuses demonstrated increased plasma IL-18
(P=0.02) despite lack of pro-inflammatory mediators in AF. In fetal
lungs, expression of pro-inflammatory genes were upregulated with
CDI, including IL-18 (p=0.005). Expression of components of lung
inflammasome, showed a significant increase either at gene or protein
levels (NLRP3, NOD2, AIM2, PYCARD/ASC and CASP1) with UP
infection. Additionally, a significant increase was observed for SAPK/
JNK (P=0.02) signaling with infection. A significant increase in the influx
of pulmonary CD68+ and CD45+ inflammatory cells were also observed
in the UP group (P<0.05). Further, surfactant protein A (SFTPA) gene
expression was significantly increased (P=0.004) in UP animals. Although
there was a significant downregulation of SFTPB gene expression
(P=0.003), there was a significant increase for its protein (P=0.01) with
UP infection compared to controls.
Conclusion: Utilizing a translational NHP model, our findings indicate
that choriodecidual Ureaplasma infection activates fetal lung inflammatory
responses without MIAC. Alveolar lymphocytic aggregates and changes
in surfactant and extracellular matrix proteins were also present in the
UP group. These responses suggest structural and functional fetal lung
changes likely occur prior to direct AF or fetal lung infection and indicates
the need for early interventions that can improve perinatal outcomes.
F-007
Glucocorticoids and Endotoxin Exert Distinct, Spatio-Temporal
Dependent Transcriptomic Changes on the Maturing Ovine Fetal
Lung. Sean William David Carter†,1 Erin L Fee,2 Binny Priya Sesurajan,1
Haruo Usuda,2 Yusaku Kumagai,1 Sebastian Illanes,3 Masatoshi Saito,4 Yi
Michelle Seah,1 Alan H Jobe,5 Mahesh Choolani,1 Matthew W Kemp.1,2
1National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; 2The University
of Western Australia, Perth, Australia; 3University of the Andes, Santiago,
Chile; 4Tohoku University Hospital, Sendai, Japan; 5Cincinnati Children’s
Hospital, Cincinnati, OH, United States.
Introduction: Glucocorticoids and inflammation exert well appreciated
but incompletely understood maturational effects on the fetal lung. We
used a preterm sheep model to investigate maturation and spatio-temporal
transcriptomic changes in the fetal ovine lung following exposure to
glucocorticoids or inflammation.
Methods: Date-mated ewes with a single fetus received either: i) 2 x
0.25mg/kg intramuscular (IM) injections of betamethasone (ANS) spaced
by 24 h; ii) an ultrasound-guided intraamniotic (IA) injection of 3.3mg
E.coli endotoxin (LPS); or iii) 1 x IM and IA injections of sterile saline.
Lambs were surgically delivered 2d or 8d post treatment initiation (2d
ANS, n=12; 8d ANS n=8; 2d LPS, n=11; 8d LPS n=12; Saline, n=12),
at 124±1d gestation, ventilated for 30 minutes to assess lung maturation,
and euthanised. Cord gas and ventilation data were tested for significance
with ANOVA (p<0.05 significant). RNA from right lobe lung tissue (11
grided anatomical sites / animal, 472 in total) underwent RNA Seq (FC
>1.5 & FDR < 0.05 significant).
Results: Relative to saline treated animals, 2d / 8d ANS and 8d LPS
animals had significantly improved lung function (compliance, cord pH,
PCO2 values all p <0.05 at 30 minutes of ventilation). Quantitatively,
8d LPS animals had the largest maturation response. RNA seq revealed
distinct, ANS- and LPS-specific patterns of spatial and temporal
gene expression associated with lung maturation. We identified key
inflammatory and apoptotic signalling differences between treatment
groups at 2d and 8d time points. Medial regions of cranial and caudal
lobes containing major bronchi had the largest number of differentially
expressed genes, with relatively few changes identified in the lateral /
distal caudal lobe. Differentially expressed transcripts common to 8d LPS
and ANS animals included MARCO and ERV3-1.
Conclusion: Transcriptional responses to inflammation and
glucocorticoids in the preterm fetal sheep lung are distinct and exhibit
marked spatio-temporal differences that correlate with the degree of
functional maturation.
162A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
F-008
Peripheral Blood and Cervicovaginal Immune Signature and Vaginal
Microbial Composition of Women at Risk of Preterm Birth during the
COVID-19 Pandemic. Belen Gimeno-Molina†,1,2,3 Kathryn E Stone†,2
Katherine E Mountain,1,3 Sherrianne Ng,2,3 Erna Bayar,3 Yun S Lee,2,3
Phillip R Bennett,2,3 David A MacIntyre,3,4 Lynne Sykes∗.1,2,3 1The Parasol
Foundation for Women’s Health and Cancer Research, London, United
Kingdom; 2Institute of Reproductive and Developmental Biology, Imperial
College London, London, United Kingdom; 3March of Dimes Prematurity
Research Centre at Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom;
4Robinson Research Institute, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB) (delivery <37 weeks gestation) is a
global burden. There is conflicting data on how the COVID-19 pandemic
and lockdown practices impacted the rate of PTB in different countries. We
evaluated the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the rate of preterm
birth, as well as the peripheral and cervicovaginal immune signatures
and vaginal microbial composition in women at high risk of spontaneous
preterm birth.
Methods: Patients attending the high-risk preterm birth prevention clinics
at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust Hospitals (London, UK) were
grouped as pre-COVID (last estimated date of delivery, EDD, in January
2020; n=2202), and COVID-19 pandemic-exposed (EDD from January
2021-March 2022, n=247). A subset of these women had plasma and
cervicovaginal fluid (CVF) samples taken as part of the VMET-2 study.
These women were also grouped as Pre-COVID-19 pandemic (EDD up
to January 2020; n=126) or COVID-19 pandemic-exposed (EDD June
2020-June 2021, n=59). Vaginal microbial composition was assessed
using metataxonomics profiling of 16S rRNA genes. Cervicovaginal fluid
(CVF) and plasma immune mediators were quantified using Luminex
immunoassays (IL-6, IL-8, IL-1β, IL-18, IP-10 IFN-γ, IFN-α, C3, C3a,
C3b).
Results: The rate of spontaneous PTB decreased during the pandemic
(22.4% vs 9.4%, p<0.001) in women who had a risk factor for preterm
birth. There were no statistically significant differences in the vaginal
Community State Types between women pre and during the COVID-19
pandemic (p=0.3817). The concentration of CVF immune mediators,
including cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, IL-1β, IL-18), complement proteins (C3,
C3a, C3b) and markers related to viral infection (IP-10, IFN-γ, IFN-α)
were also unaltered between pre and during the COVID-19 pandemicexposed
groups. In contrast, during the COVID-19 pandemic, there
was a reduction in the median concentration of C3a (p=0.04) and C3b
(p=0.03) in plasma, although no differences were seen in the levels of other
inflammatory mediators (IL-6, IL-8, IL-1β, IL-18, IP-10 IFN-γ, IFN-α).
Conclusion: We conclude that the reduction in spontaneous PTB rates
seen during the COVID-19 pandemic was not due to alterations in the
vaginal microbiome or local immune response. Future work should
explore other reasons such as a reduction in environmental pollutants and
reductions in circulating viruses other than COVID-19 due to lockdown
practices.
F-009
Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Supplementation in Induced Preterm Birth of
Transgenic Mice: Evidence for Alpha-1 Antitrypsin in Prevention of
Premature Birth. Emma Koivulehto†,1,2 Antti M. Haapalainen,1,2 Heli
Tiensuu,1,2 Anu Pasanen,1,2 Mika Rämet,1,2,3 Mikko Hallman.1,2 1University of
Oulu, Oulu, Finland; 2Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland; 3Tampere
University, Tampere, Finland.
Introduction: This study was supported by research sponsored program
from Grifols. Premature birth (PTB) affects 10% of all pregnancies,
leading to 15 million cases, one million neonatal deaths annually,
and to risk of serious health issues in survivors. Spontaneous preterm
births (SPTB) make up 70% of all PTB-cases. Half of SPTB-cases are
idiopathic. Inflammation is a key factor in preterm births, as predicted
by the inflammatory biomarkers. Alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT/Serpina1), an
acute-phase protease inhibitor, plays an important role in down-regulating
inflammation, and its deficiency leads to heightened inflammatory
responses. Through comprehensive proteomic, transcriptomic, genomic,
and functional pathway analyses in basal placenta and decidua, we
identified a strong correlation between AAT deficiency and the increased
risk of idiopathic SPTB. Notably, this study did not focus on genetic AATdeficiency;
rather, a focal AAT-deficiency was evident in basal decidua/
placenta. In present model study we test whether Serpina1a-e knockout
(KO) mice in comparison to the wild-type (WT), are more sensitive to
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced PTB and whether AAT supplementation
therapy prevents PTB.
Methods: Timed-mated 7-15-week-old Serpina1a-e (C57BL/6J
background) KO and WT mice were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with
12.5 mg (625 mg/kg) of human AAT (Prolastin®, Grifols) or saline at
16.5 days post-conception (dpc). The chosen dosage elevates circulating
AAT in KO mice to physiological levels typical of both murine biology
and the human third trimester of pregnancy (3-4 g/L) within 3 hours.
After 2.5 hours, mice received 1.25 μg of LPS i.p. to induce labor. Labor
and delivery occurring within 48 hours of LPS injection was classified as
PTB. Mice were euthanized following PTB, while non-PTB mice were
euthanized 48 hours post-LPS injection. Blood and tissues were collected
for downstream analysis.
Results: AAT treatment prolonged the gestation in Serpina1 KO mice
compared to WT controls (adjusted p = 0.044). With AAT treatment,
the LPS-induced PTB rate in the KO group was 40%, and the non-PTB
fetuses were born alive. In contrast, the PTB rate in the WT group was
unexpectedly 90%. In both KO- and WT-groups, the incidence of PTB
was similar after placebo and LPS.
Conclusion: According to present results, AAT supplementation therapy
improved the resistance against inflammation-induced SPTB. The ongoing
pharmacodynamics study, and investigation of the inflammatory pathways
will give further insight of molecular events at the uterus-placenta-fetus
interface.
F-010
Development of a Light Based Platform to Assess Cervical Mucus
Barrier Function and Physical Mucus Properties. Elizabeth Buzbee†,1
Katy Belcher†,1 Miranda Bagar,1 Madison Carlgreen,1 Jeannie Kelly,2
Ashley Veade,2 Michael House,3 Christine O’Brien.1 1Washington University
in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, United States; 2Washington University School
of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, United States; 3Tufts University School of
Medicine, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: Cervical mucus (CM) is a mucin-based hydrogel that plays
a crucial role in fertility and infection prevention. Its physical properties
change significantly throughout the menstrual cycle due to hormonal
fluctuations, influencing permeability and its barrier properties. However,
there is limited research on how CM’s viscoelastic properties relate to
its permeability, particularly in the context of infection-mediated preterm
birth (PTB). Previous studies have investigated the relationship between
the mechanical properties of CM, permeability, and PTB risk using
conventional rheology. These methods require large sample volumes and
costly equipment, making research progression challenging. To address
these limitations, I have built a small, low-cost laser speckle rheology
(LSR) system capable of measuring the viscoelastic properties of small
CM volumes. I will determine the correlation between CM permeability
and viscoelasticity by integrating fluorescent bead translocation assays
(FBTA) into the LSR system.
Methods: Adapting the already built LSR system to accommodate
for FBTA allows for simultaneous measurements of viscoelasticity
and permeability in small CM samples (~10-50 μL). The system is to
be validated using synthetic mucus of varying volumes with tunable
viscoelastic properties, comparing results against conventional rheometers
to ensure accuracy. Using the system, the correlation between permeability
and viscoelasticity will be determined. CM samples, currently being
collected from patients at different stages of their menstrual cycle, are
being used to examine how viscoelasticity and permeability change with
hormone fluctuations.
Results: I have successfully developed an LSR system to detect
the viscoelasticity of hydrogels. With the incorporation of FBTA, I
hypothesize that CM permeability will be inversely proportional to its
viscoelastic properties. The LSR/FBTA system is expected to provide
accurate measurements of permeability and viscoelasticity for small
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 163A
Friday Posters
CM volumes, overcoming the limitations of current methods. Results
from synthetic mucus experiments will demonstrate the system’s ability
to measure both properties, while human CM studies will reveal the
relationship between permeability and viscoelasticity across the menstrual
cycle.
Conclusion: This project will result in a novel, low-cost system for
simultaneously measuring the mechanical properties and permeability of
small CM volumes, enabling new insights into the relationship between
CM barrier function and PTB risk. Additionally, the system is clinically
transferable, presenting as a potential screening method for PTB risk
assessment.
F-011
A Retrospective Study of the Risk Factors Associated with Histologic
Chorioamnionitis in Women with Prenatal Fever Who Deliver Preterm.
Renyi Hua∗, Xiayi Wang†, Nan Lin∗, Yanlin Wang∗. International Peace
Maternity and Child Health Hospital, Medical School, Shanghai Jiaotong
University, Shanghai, China.
Introduction: Chorioamnionitis (CAM) is a common complication of
pregnancy that leads to various adverse neonatal and maternal outcomes.
However, precise clinical predictors of histologic chorioamnionitis (HCA)
in preterm birth are still lacking, which makes antenatal identification
of HCA difficult. We sought to identify the risk factors for HCA and
investigate the association between HCA and adverse obtstetric outcomes
in women who delivered preterm and diagnosed with prenatal fever.
Methods: Data was obtained from 220 eligible women who delivered
preterm and diagnosed with prenatal fever between January 2018 and
December 2020 at the International Peace Maternity and Child Health
Hospital in Shanghai, China. They were divided into an HCA group (101
cases) and a control group (119 cases) according to the results of placental
pathology. The clinical characteristics of the pregnant women and their
neonatal outcomes in the two groups were compared, and the risk factors
for HCA were analyzed by multiple logistic regression.
Results: The incidence of congenital infection (27.66 vs 15.38%, P=0.029)
and neonatal sepsis (8.89 vs 0.90%, P=0.017) in the HCA group were
significantly higher than in the control group. The interval time of fever
and PROM between 24 to 48h (aOR=3.603, 95%CI 1.027~12.644)
and >48h (aOR=6.201, 95%CI 1.729 ~ 22.238) were associated with
HCA. The WBC cut-off value that best predicted HCA was 11*10^9/L
(AUC=0.667, 95% CI 0.569-0.738).
Conclusion: Our data suggest that HCA predisposes pregnancy to an
increased risk of neonatal sepsis and congenital infection for premature
infants. The duration of premature rupture should be closely monitored.
Obstetric interventions should be actively carried out for pregnant women
with preterm PROM with fever whose rupture duration either exceeds
24h or their maternal WBC reached 11*10^9/L.
F-012
GMCSF is the Critical Intermediate for Progesterone (P4) Production
in the Fetal Membranes (FM). A Adulla, A DeTomaso, R Moore, D
Kumar, S Mesiano, J Moore∗. CWRU, Cleveland, OH, United States.
Introduction: In culture of full thickness term fetal membrane (FM),
granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) decreases
tensile strength and critically mediates all inflammation-associated FM
weakening. This effect is inhibited by local progesterone (P4) produced
locally by chorion trophoblast cells, likely via anti-inflammatory effects
on decidual stromal cells mediated by the nuclear P4 receptor (PR).
Paradoxically, P4 is produced within the FM in response to GM-CSF and
we hypothesize that it acts in a tissue-level feedback manner to inhibit
inflammation-induced FM weakening. We show here that GM-CSF is
the critical mediator of all inflammation induced P4 production in FM.
Methods: FM explants were mounted in Transwell inserts and cultured
with control media and increasing concentrations of GM-CSF, RU486 (a
PR antagonist), or trilostane (blocks P4 production by chorion trophoblast
cells). P4 production and FM rupture strength were determined. Effects
of GM-CSF and other mediators of inflammation-induced weakening
(IL-1β, TNFα, thrombin, LPS) on P4 production (determined by ELISA)
and the abundance of the 3ß-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-1 (HSD3B1)
enzyme in the BeWo human trophoblast cell line and an immortalized
chorion cytotrophoblast cell line were determined by immunoblotting.
Results: GM-CSF induced P4 production in FM explants and both cell
lines in a concentration-dependent manner. GM-CSF also increased
HSD3B1 protein in the cell lines. None of the other inflammatory
mediators tested effected P4 production. (all p < .01)
Conclusion: Inflammation induced FM weakening and inhibition of
weakening are both modulated by GM-CSF. GM-CSF was the only
inflammatory activator that induces P4 within the tissues of the FM.
These data are consistent with a negative-feedback system whereby P4
is induced by GM-CSF concomitant with inflammation-induced FM
weakening. We propose that locally produced P4 acting on PR-expressing
decidual steroidal cells counteracts GM-CSF, inhibiting (via P4/PR antiinflammatory
activity) its production and downstream action with resultant
preservation of FM structural integrity and prevention of preterm birth.
F-013
Myometrial Smooth Muscle KATP Channel Activity is Attenuated in
Diet-Induced Obesity Mouse Model of Pregnancy. Tsuyoshi Murata†,
Xiaofeng Ma∗, Kevin K. Prifti†, Lindsey N. Kent∗, Antonina I. Frolova∗,
Sarah K. England∗. Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis,
St. Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Labor dystocia occurs in 21% of deliveries, increasing the
risk of cesarean sections, postpartum bleeding, shoulder dystocia, and
impaired neurodevelopment in offspring. Obesity is a major modifiable
risk factor for labor dystocia, affecting 35.9% of women aged 18-44
years in the U.S. Pregnant women with obesity often experience reduced
myometrial contractility, although the underlying mechanisms are not yet
fully understood. We focused on the KATP channel, which links metabolic
changes to cellular excitability; KATP channels are activated by a decrease
in internal ATP/ADP levels, leading to cell hyperpolarization and potential
cytoprotection. This study investigates the role of KATP channels in
modulating uterine contraction and myometrial smooth muscle cells
(MSMCs) excitability in a diet-induced obesity (DIO) mouse model of
pregnancy. We hypothesize that myometrial KATP channel activity is altered
in the DIO mice, resulting in reduced uterine contractions.
Methods: C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a DIO group or a control-diet
(CON) group, fed an obesogenic chow or a formulated control chow,
respectively, for 10 weeks before mating and during gestation. Uterine
tissue was harvested on day 18.5 of pregnancy, before labor onset.
Tension recording and patch-clamp techniques were used to assess KATP
channel activity in the presence of the KATP channel blocker glibenclamide
(GLB). Real-time PCR was conducted, and available RNA sequencing
and metabolomics data were leveraged to analyze the expression of KATP
channel subunit genes (Kir6.1 and SUR2) and the abundance of energy
metabolites. Two-way ANOVA with Tukey correction and t-tests were
performed to compare the parameters between groups.
Results: GLB application significantly inhibited uterine contraction
frequencies in CON mice (N=10); however, this effect was absent in DIO
mice (N=8), suggesting reduced KATP channel activity. This was confirmed
by patch-clamp measurements where KATP channel current at -80 mV
was reduced in MSMCs from DIO mice (N=7) compared to CON mice
(N=5) (-0.78 vs. -2.37 pA/pF, p=0.026). Kir6.1 and SUR2 expressions
were similar in uterine tissues from DIO and CON mice (N=8 for both);
however, the ATP/ADP ratio was higher in uterine tissues from DIO mice
compared to CON mice (N=12 for both) (1.24 vs. 0.64, p=0.046). Several
phosphatidylinositols that modulate the KATP channel activity were lower
in uterine tissues from DIO mice.
Conclusion: The DIO mice exhibited lower KATP channel responses to
GLB in uterine tissues and reduced KATP channel currents in MSMCs.
Metabolic changes may have altered KATP channel activity in uterine
tissues from the DIO mice. Further studies are needed to explore if KATP
channel modulation could enhance uterine contractions in pregnant
individuals with obesity.
164A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
F-014
Blockade of ATP2B4 Increases the Intracellular Ca2+ Concentration,
Thereby Promoting the Contraction of Myometrial Smooth Muscle
Cells. Xiaodi Wang†, Kaiyuan Ji, Xiaoyan Sha, Huishu Liu∗. Guangzhou
Women and Children’s Medical Center Affiliated to Guangzhou Medical
University, Guangzhou, China.
Introduction: Spontaneous preterm labor (PTL) causes infant
morbidity and mortality. Regular uterine contractions were the common
characteristics in spontaneous labor at term or PTL. Thus, effective
decrease or suppression of myometrial contraction could prevent preterm
delivery. Transcriptome analysis revealed that ATP2B4(also known as
PMCA4) is down-regulated significantly in laboring myometrium and is
probably responsible for the uterine contraction. However, the mechanism
of ATP2B4 involved in regulating the contraction of the uterus in labor
is unknown.
Methods: Through the analysis of transcriptomics, genome-wide
differences in mRNA expression in the human myometrium during labour
was revealed. By performing single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on
human myometrium in term in labour(TIL) and term in non-labour(TNL),
we established a comprehensive landscape of major cell populations
during labour. Western blot, RT-qPCR and immunofluorescence detection
of ATP2B4 expression in TNL and TL human myometrium. ATP2B4-
siRNA and overexpression lentiviral particles was constructed and
transfected to human myometrial smooth muscle cells (hMSMCs), and
RT-PCR was used to detect the expression of ATP2B4 in smooth muscle
cells after transfection. A cell contraction assay kit was used to evaluate
the contractility of hMSMCs.
Results: We found that ATP2B4 was significantly down-regulated in
TL at mRNA levels, according to an analysis of differentially expressed
mRNAs (Fig A). Cell clustering was performed by unsupervised
uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP), a total of 12
cell populations were identified(Fig B). ATP2B4 was expressed atopy
in uterine smooth muscle(Fig C) and dramatically low expressed in
parturient myometrium(Fig D). Moreover, ATP2B4 was mainly expressed
in uterus from GTEx database (Fig E). The expression of ATP2B4 was
confirmed by RT-qPCR and WB in human in-labor myometrium (Fig F-H).
Immunofluorescence revealed that the expression of ATP2B4 in laboring
uterine myometrium decreased in TL and located in the cell membrane
and cytoplasm on HMSMCs (Fig I, J, K). A cell-gel contraction assay
was performed to investigate the contractility of hMSMCs. Knockdown of
ATP2B4 caused lower size to the cell-gels compared to group control (Fig
L-M). In addition, the results of Western blot show that the contractionassociated
protein expression was increased after knockdown of ATP2B4
in hMSMCs, whereas overexpression of ATP2B4 itself can reduced the
expression of MLCK, GJA1 (Fig N).
Conclusion: In summary, we discovered ATP2B4 is down-regulated in
human in-labor myometrium. Blockade of ATP2B4 increases intracellular
Ca2+ concentration, thus promoting contraction of uterine myometrial
smooth muscle cells.
F-015
Luminal Progenitor Cells Marked by Olfactomedin 4 Gives Rise to
Secretory Cells in the Mouse Cervix. Shanmuga Priyaa Madhukaran∗,
Mala Mahendroo∗. UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, United
States.
Introduction: The cervix plays a key role in fertilization, pregnancy, and
birth, while acting as a protective barrier against pathogens. Its epithelium
exhibits high plasticity, allowing rapid adaptation to physiological
changes. However, the origins and diversity of cervical epithelial cell
types are not fully understood. We identified goblet cells as the primary
secretory cells lining the mouse endocervix and ectocervix, producing
mucus that forms a barrier against ascending infections. Single-cell RNA
analysis revealed two progenitor populations: Trp63+ basal progenitors
and Krt8+Olfm4+ luminal progenitors. Lineage tracing studies in mice
were performed to evaluate their progenitor potential and define the origins
of cervical secretory cells.
Methods: Lineage tracing used Rosa26-tdTomato reporter mice
crossed with the Olfm4CreERT2 line. Adult female mice received one
tamoxifen injection (1 mg/g body weight) before mating for pregnancy
studies. TdTomato+ cells were identified by immunostaining and in situ
hybridization, using markers for basal (Trp63), columnar (Krt8), and
goblet cells (Spdef, Muc5b). Flow cytometry was used to sort tdTomato+
cells from the Olfm4CreERT2 line for organoid formation studies.
Results: During the 19-day pregnancy, Tomato fluorescence was restricted
to luminal cells, with no expression in the basal layers. TdTomato+ cells
increased progressively from day 6, to day 18. Goblet cell markers Spdef
and Muc5b had a similar expression pattern to Olfm4-derived Tomato
fluorescence, indicating Olfm4+ luminal progenitors form goblet cells
during pregnancy. In the nonpregnant secretory phase (metestrus and
diestrus), tdTomato+ cells were confined to the luminal layers, with few
present during the proliferative phase (estrus). In metestrus, tdTomato+
cells were Spdef+ and Muc5b-, while in diestrus they were Spdef+ and
Muc5b+, suggesting goblet cells in early and late stages of differentiation,
respectively. Additionally, tdTomato+ cells marked the uterine luminal
and glandular epithelium. The progenitor potential of Olfm4+ cells was
further confirmed by their ability to form organoids.
Conclusion: This study demonstrates Olfm4 marks a columnar progenitor
giving rise to goblet cells in the cervix and glandular and luminal uterine
epithelium. While previous research suggested a single basal progenitor
in the cervix, our findings reveal two distinct progenitor populations that
undergo stage-specific expansion to form distinct epithelial subtypes.
Ongoing studies aim to uncover the signals regulating Olfm4+ progenitors
and how their dysfunction contributes to ascending infections and
pregnancy complications.
F-016
Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors Maintain a Pro-Relaxation Myometrial
Phenotype. Anna Paredes Barreda†,1,2 Marina Paul,1,2 Tamas Zakar,1,2,3
Amy Gregson,1,2 Roger Smith,1,2,3 Jonathan W Paul∗.1,2 1The University
of Newcastle, Newcastle, Australia; 2Hunter Medical Research Institute,
Newcastle, Australia; 3Hunter New England Health, Newcastle, Australia.
Introduction: The myometrium remains relaxed during gestation but
undergoes a phenotypic transformation leading to the onset of labor.
This coincides with increased expression of contraction-associated
proteins (CAPs) and decreased expression of relaxation-associated
proteins (RAPs). Previous research revealed that histone deacetylase
inhibitors (HDACis) have genomic and non-genomic effects influencing
myometrial phenotype by affecting the expression of the CAPs and RAPs.
Therefore, HDACis are a promising treatment for maintaining a relaxed
myometrium phenotype. This study aimed to assess whether different
HDACis can maintain term, non-laboring pregnant human myometrium
in a pro-relaxation phenotype ex vivo.
Methods: Biopsies of term, pregnant not-in-labor human myometrium
were collected and a small portion (Fresh, 0h) snap-frozen and then
stored at -80ºC. The remaining tissue was dissected into small pieces
and washed in PBS to remove blood. The explants were then incubated
for 48 h in free-serum media at 37ºC, 5% CO2, during which they were
treated with different concentrations of HDACis or DMSO (Control).
After the incubation, the explants were snap-frozen and mRNA extracted.
The expression of key CAPs and RAPs was determined by qRT-PCR and
then compared between Fresh (0 h), Control (48h, DMSO), and Treated
(48h, HDACis) cultured myometrium. Data were analyzed by ANOVA
using GraphPad Prism.
Results: After 48 h incubation, control-treated myometrial explants
exhibited significant declines in multiple RAP-encoding genes and
significant increases in multiple CAP-encoding genes. Treatment with
the HDACis, Trichostatin A (TSA) and Suberoylanilide Hydroxamic
Acid (SAHA), preserved the myometrial expression of RAP-encoding
genes, including HSPB6 and HSPB1, and prevented the upregulation
of numerous CAP-encoding genes, including ESR1, PTGS2, TRPV4,
GJA1, NFκB1, IL1β and IL6. Many of these effects have been confirmed
at the protein level. In contrast, treatment with the HDACis, Suberic
Bis-Hydroxamate (SBHA), Trans-Resveratrol (TR), and Valproic Acid
(VPA), did not prevent the decline of RAP-encoding gene expression or
upregulation of CAP-encoding gene expression.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 165A
Friday Posters
Conclusion: Labor onset in vivo is associated with downregulated
myometrial expression of RAP-encoding genes and upregulation of CAPencoding
genes. Treating term pregnant not-in-labor human myometrium
with the HDACis, TSA and SAHA, successfully prevented such laborassociated
changes in the RAP and CAP genes examined. This is consistent
with TSA and SAHA maintaining pregnant human myometrium in a
term, non-laboring phenotype ex vivo. Utilizing HDACis, may maintain a
quiescent, non-laboring myometrial phenotype as a strategy for preventing
preterm birth.
F-017
Characterizing the Role of Cervical Epithelial Goblet Cells in the
Human Cervix. Yevgenia Fomina†,1 ShanmugaPriyaa Madhukaran†,1
Sarah England,2 Mala Mahendroo∗.1 1University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center, Dallas, TX, United States; 2Washington University School
of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Cervical epithelium provides a physical and immuneprotective
barrier that is essential for combating infections in the
reproductive tract. We hypothesize that a specialized secretory epithelial
cell called the goblet cell is responsible for the synthesis of unique factors
that shield the epithelia from external microbes during pregnancy.
Methods: From our single-cell RNAseq mouse cervical epithelia dataset,
we identified goblet-cell enriched transcripts encoding for secreted
protective proteins that we hypothesize are important in maintaining an
intact mucosal barrier. These proteins have immune modulating functions
(olfactomedin 4 (OLFM4) and IgA immunoglobulin), protease inhibition
function, (epididymis protein 4 (HE4/WFDC2)), and antimicrobial
function (human beta defensin -2). In this study, we evaluated the
expression of these factors in human cervicovaginal fluid (CVF) samples.
CVF was collected from patients (n=183) in the first, second, and third
trimester of pregnancy who had term (n = 20) or preterm (n = 30) birth
outcomes. Of the patients with a preterm delivery, 14 had known bacterial
infections and 16 had no known bacterial infections during the pregnancy
course. Soluble proteins were eluted from the CV swabs and ELISA assays
were used to measure the expression of the above-mentioned proteins.
Additionally, histologic studies were performed on human and mouse
cervix specimens to correlate goblet-cell marker expression.
Results: All proteins of interest had detectable expression in the human
pregnant CVF samples. Expression of IgA and HE4 was unchanged across
all patient cohorts. Beta defensin was preferentially expressed in the PTB
cohorts across all trimesters. OLFM4 expression was also preferentially
expressed in the PTB cohorts across all trimesters, with the highest
concentrations in the PTB patients with a reproductive tract infection in
pregnancy. Histologic evaluation of human cervical sections identified
preferential expression of goblet cell markers in the human endocervix in
late gestation (eg. Muc5Ac) in contrast to the mouse cervix which harbors
goblet cells in both the endocervix and ectocervix.
Conclusion: We highlight the similarities in goblet cell enriched protective
factors between the human and mouse cervical goblet cells, identify
OLFM4 and beta defensin-2 proteins as preferentially expressed in
patients with preterm birth delivery outcomes, and characterize the distinct
morphologic signature of the human cervical epithelia in pregnancy.
Together, these novel findings support the importance of goblet cells in
reproductive tract homeostasis.
F-018
Macrophage Morphometry during Prepartum Cervix Ripening in
Term and Preterm Birth - Loss of Response or Decline in Progesterone?
Dalton D Baldwin†, Ashley N Thompson, Daylan J Ward, Steven M.
Yellon∗. Loma Linda University, Loma Linda, CA, United States.
Introduction: As pregnancy nears term, the cervix remodels into a
distensible structure that opens the gate for delivery. This ripening
occurs before birth when progesterone (P4) is near peak in circulation.
The essential role of macrophages (Macs) for inflammation to remodel
tissues, led to this spatial morphometric study to test the hypothesis that
cellular characteristics of differentiated Macs in the prepartum cervix
before term birth were the same as in preterm birth induced by loss of P4.
Methods: Blood and cervix were obtained from 3 groups of pregnant
CD-1 mice that were intact or ovariectomized on day 16 postbreeding
and a silastic implant filled with vehicle (Ovx) or P4 (OvxP4). To assess
indices of inflammation, cervix sections were stained for cross-linked
collagen (CxColl), as well as densities of resident F4/80 Macs and cell
nuclei (CN). Use of QuPath opensource software created an accurate
mask that, after rigorous validation, matched manual annotations of area
of Mac-specific stain. For morphometry, scripts and artificial intelligence
approaches, to automated batch processing of regions of interest (ROI)
were used across a range of stain features.
Results: In photomicrographs of ecto- and endo-cervix regions, increased
inflammation was again evident in prepartum controls versus at term.
Specifically, CxColl declined while densities/ROI of CN decreased, and
Mac/CN increased before birth. Novel morphometric analyses found no
change in total or average areas of Mac stain or Mac total area of stain/
CN across days postbreeding among the 3 groups. However, total area
of Mac stain/number of Macs was greater in the cervix from controls on
prepartum days 15, 16.5, and 18 versus postpartum mice. Compared to
controls, Ovx reduced CN and CxColl, but not morphometric indices in
the cervix despite a 10-fold decline in plasma P4 (ELISA). In OvxP4 mice,
plasma P4 was sustained and preterm birth forestalled. Prepartum, cervix
CN/ROI increased while decreased Mac/CN, CxColl increased, and areas
of Mac stain both /CN and /number of Macs) declined versus controls.
Conclusion: The high throughput performance of this automated
image analyses indicates specific regulation of local inflammation in
the prepartum cervix. Contrary to the hypothesis, prepartum cervix
inflammation at term differed from ripening prior to preterm birth - only
CxColl degradation occurred independent of Mac morphometry. Whether
phenotypic activities of Mac subtypes drive local inflammation in the
prepartum cervix to distinguish term from induced preterm birth remains
to be determined. The present approach also raises the possibility that
spatial morphometry may provide novel insights that forecast functions
of resident Macs associated with local physiological inflammation at term
as distinguished from pathophysiological etiologies of preterm birth.
F-019
Cervical Shortening and Cerclage Placement Among Patients with and
without a History of Bariatric Surgery. Sarah H Abelman†,1 Nathan A
Keller,1 Frank I Jackson,1 Julie Chen,2 Luis A Bracero,1 Matthew J Blitz.1
1Northwell, New Hyde Park, NY, United States; 2Zucker School of Medicine
at Hofstra/Northwell, Hempstead, NY, United States.
Introduction: Prior studies have shown that pregnant patients with
obesity have screening cervical length measurements that are longer, on
average, than patients of normal weight. However, little is known about
how bariatric surgery modifies this effect. This study aims to evaluate the
incidence of cervical shortening and cerclage placement in patients with
and without a history of bariatric surgery.
Methods: This was a retrospective cohort study within a large healthcare
system in New York between January 2019 and June 2023. Patients with
screening cervical length measurements between 16 weeks 0 days and 23
weeks 6 days gestational age were analyzed. Short and very short cervical
lengths were defined as <25 mm and <10 mm respectively. Bariatric
surgery status was determined and included any of the following: gastric
sleeve, gastric band, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, and biliopancreatic
diversion with duodenal switch (BPDDS). The shortest measured cervical
length was reported for each patient. Patients with a history of preterm
birth, and patients without cervical length measurements or pre-pregnancy
BMI data were excluded. Logistic regression models were used to compare
the shortest cervical length measurement and cerclage placement by
history of bariatric surgery (yes/no), adjusting for pre-pregnancy BMI
class. All statistical analyses were performed in R 4.3.1.
Results: In total, cervical length measurements were analyzed for 44,612
patients: 44,365 (99.4%) without and 247 (0.6%) with a history of bariatric
surgery. Among patients with a history of bariatric surgery, 21 (8.5%) had
short, and 3 (1.2%) had very short cervices with 7 (2.8%) receiving an
ultrasound- or exam-indicated cerclage. Among patients without a history
of bariatric surgery 952 (2.1%) had short, and 238 (0.5%) had very short
cervices with 233 (0.5%) receiving either an ultrasound- or exam-indicated
166A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
cerclage. Bariatric surgery was associated with a significantly increased
odds of both shortened cervix <25mm (aOR 3.8, 95% CI 2.34-5.87) and
cerclage placement (aOR 4.5, 95% CI 1.89-9.05).
Conclusion: Bariatric surgery was associated with a significantly
increased odds of shortened cervix and cerclage, even when excluding
patients with history of preterm birth, and controlling for BMI. Further
studies examining the potential etiology of such a relationship are needed.
F-020
Cervicovaginal Cytokine Expression Predictive of Preterm Delivery
- A Prospective Study. Yasaman Cochava Yaghoubian,1 Dzhamala
Gilmandyar,2 Alejandro Alvarez,3 Christine Metz,3 Burton Rochelson.2
1Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/ Northwell, Great Neck, NY, United
States; 2Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/ Northwell, Manhasset, NY,
United States; 3Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research, Manhasset,
NY, United States.
Introduction: In the United States, preterm birth accounts for 70% of all
neonatal morbidity and mortality and has an incidence of approximately
12 %. Cervical insufficiency is one known risk factor for preterm birth.
Cervical cerclage is an intervention that can be offered to select patients
who have met sonographic or clinical criteria. However, the interval to
delivery after cerclage placement remains unpredictable. Inflammation
measured by biomarkers is a known risk factor for preterm delivery.
Donahue et al have recently demonstrated an association between
elevated mid-trimester maternal plasma cytokine profiles and preterm
birth in patients with cervical cerclage placement. Though this implies
systemic inflammation as a factor precipitating preterm delivery, the
local inflammatory state of the cervicovaginal milieu remains poorly
understood. Our goal was to assess levels of cervicovaginal inflammatory
cytokine concentration in both uncomplicated pregnancies and those with
cervical insufficiency and cerclage placement.
Methods: This was a prospective cohort study of singleton, nonanomalous
pregnancies from 2022-2023 at two tertiary care centers. We
enrolled 22 subjects receiving ultrasound or physical exam indicated
cerclages, and 15 subjects with no prior preterm delivery and a normal
cervical length as controls. Cervicovaginal fluid samples were collected
before and 1-2 wks after cerclage placement for the study arm, and during
routine anatomical surveys for the control arm. Samples were analyzed
using an 8-plex proinflammatory cytokine assay.
Results: Compared to controls, subjects with cervical insufficiency
demonstrated higher expression of IFNɣ, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, IL-
12p70, and TNFα. There was no difference in IL-8 expression. We then
analyzed the association between cytokine levels and preterm delivery
and found increased cytokine expression in patients with subsequent
preterm deliveries vs term as follows: IFNɣ, IL-4, IL-10, IL-12p70, and
TNFα. This association did not hold for IL-1β, IL-6, or IL-8. When further
dividing preterm delivery to less than 32, and 32 to less than 37 weeks,
only IL-4 and TNFα expression levels remained significantly different.
There was no change in expression of any of the studied cytokines pre- vs.
post- cerclage placement.
Conclusion: Patients with cervical insufficiency demonstrated an
increased expression of cervicovaginal cytokines prior to cerclage
placement. The placement of a cerclage, however, did not significantly
alter this increased expression. This increased local cytokine expression
was positively associated with preterm delivery with IL-4 and TNFα
levels associated with delivery less than 32 weeks.
F-021
Preventing Preterm Birth - Using Nucleic Acid Therapeutics to
Modulate Myometrial Phenotype. Madeline King,1,2 Marina Paul,1,2
Tamas Zakar,1,2,3 Jorge M Tolosa,1,2 Roger Smith,1,2,3 Jonathan W Paul.1,2
1The University of Newcastle, Callaghan, Australia; 2Hunter Medical
Research Institute, New Lambton Heights, Australia; 3John Hunter
Hospital, New Lambton Heights, Australia.
Introduction: Preterm Birth (PTB) is the leading cause of death and
disease in children <5 years, impacting ~15 million pregnancies annually,
leading to 1 million neonatal deaths per year. Development of effective
PTB treatments remains a global health priority. Nucleic acids can target
previously undruggable pathways by modulating the expression of
genes of interest, affecting cellular phenotype. Nucleic acids are yet to
be implemented for PTB prevention. Hypothesis: We hypothesised that
nucleic acids can maintain and/or restore a ‘pro-gestation’ relaxed uterine
phenotype to prevent PTB. Aims: We aimed to show that siRNAs can
knockdown the expression of key contraction-promoting genes; RELA,
GJA1, PTGS2, and PDE4D, in pregnant human uterine smooth muscle
cells (myocytes) in culture and in tissue strips.
Methods: Pregnant human uterine myocytes and myometrial tissue strips
in culture were transfected with siRNAs targeting RELA, GJA1, PTGS2,
and PDE4D for 24, 48, or 24 + 24 h. To affect broader phenotype, the
four siRNAs were transfected in combination, then target gene expression
was assessed by qRT-PCR.
Results: In cultured myocytes, RELA, GJA1, PTGS2, and PDE4D
knockdown was achieved for all three treatment time points, however
the 24 + 24 h transfection yielded the most consistent simultaneous
knockdown across all four genes at 86.7%, 74.0%, 73.4%, and 78.5%,
respectively, relative to scrambled control siRNA. In cultured tissue strips,
only the 24 + 24 h transfection yielded significant knockdown of the target
genes at 31.6%, 43.0%, 54.4%, and 41.3%, respectively.
Conclusion: These data demonstrate that nucleic acids can successfully
downregulate the expression of multiple pro-contractile genes
simultaneously. Of the transfection approaches tested, the 24 + 24 h
yielded superior knockdown. The findings suggest that nucleic acids are
a promising avenue for restoring and/or preserving a relaxed phenotype
in pregnant human uterine myocytes, as relevant to preventing PTB.
F-022
MAFF Enhances Uterine Contractions by Promoting MYLK
Expression Through Super-Enhancer. Kaiyuan Ji, Wen Bolun, Chen
Lina, Liu Huishu. Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
Introduction: Abnormal uterine contractions can lead to maternal and
fetal complications such as preterm birth, dystocia, or fetal distress. The
regulatory mechanisms controlling uterine contractions remain poorly
understood.
Methods: ChIP-seq of histone H3K27ac was conducted to identify superenhancers
in uterine smooth muscle cells. HiChIP was used to map longrange
enhancer-promoter interaction loops. To assess the functional role
of the super-enhancer, we employed the dCas9-KRAB genome silencing
system to specifically target and reduce its activity. Gene expression and
cell contractility were verified using a combination of RT-qPCR, Western
blot, ChIP-qPCR, siRNA knockdown, immunofluorescence, and tension
measurement assays.
Results: Transcription factor MAFF is highly expressed in the human
myometrium during labor, and its knockdown significantly weakens
the contractile force of uterine smooth muscle cells. MAFF specifically
binds to the super-enhancer of MYLK, a key contractile-associated
protein (CAP), and knockdown of MAFF leads to a reduction in MYLK
expression. we demonstrated that the super-enhancer is crucial for the
high expression of MYLK and the robust contractions of uterine smooth
muscle cells.
Conclusion: This study aims to elucidate the mechanism by which MAFF
mediates super-enhancers to promote uterine contractions and provide a
theoretical foundation for the treatment of labor-related disorders.
F-023
Variation of CB1 Cannabinoid Receptor Expression in a Murine
Gestation. Melissa L Kozakiewicz, Jie Zhang, Saraswatie Rambaran,
Chad A Grotegut. Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston Salem, NC,
United States.
Introduction: The biology of labor is complex and includes interplay
among steroid hormones, cytokines, and prostaglandins affecting the
maternal-fetal interface and smooth muscle regulation. More recent
evidence suggests the endocannabinoid system as a novel pathway of
investigation in reproductive research. The endocannabinoid system is
an endogenous cell-signaling system based on eicosanoid derivatives that
promote cellular return to homeostasis. Prior studies indicate specific
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 167A
Friday Posters
involvement of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor in the onset of labor. We aim
to describe the normal variation in CB1 cannabinoid receptor throughout
a mouse gestational period.
Methods: Wild type (C57BL/6J) mice were utilized and underwent timing
mating. Pregnant mice were humanely euthanized at 12/13-, 14/15-,
16/17-, and 18/19-days gestation. Immediately following euthanasia,
the uterine tissue was harvested and flash-frozen. CB1 receptor mRNA
expression was determine using real-time polymerase chain reaction.
4 replicates were included for each gestational group.The comparative
threshold cycle method was used to calculate relative gene expression.
Gene expression was normalized to a pooled reference sample. Data are
presented as fold difference mean ± SD. Statistical comparisons were
made using a one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA).
Results: CB1 cannabinoid receptor mRNA expression for the 12/13-day
group was 4.13 ± 1.433, for the 14/15-day group it was 4.24 ± 1.357, for
the 16/17-day group it was 1.56 ± 0.639, and for the 18/19-day group it
was 1.56 ± 0.765 (p=<0.01). Additionally, when independently comparing
the 12/13-day gestation group mean to the 14/15-day, 16/17-day, and
18/19-day groups, there was a significant difference in mRNA expression
of CB1 cannabinoid receptor between the 12/13-day gestation group and
both the 16/17-day group (p=0.01) and the 18/19-day group (p=0.01).
Conclusion: In a murine gestation, CB1 cannabinoid receptor mRNA
expression declines in later gestation. This, along with previous work,
suggests a role of the endocannabinoid system in pregnancy and perhaps
the timing of labor.
F-024
The Impact of Soluble Interleukin-6 Receptor on Preterm Birth.
France Côté†,1 Laetitia Corriveau-Tozzi,1 Tiffany Habelrih,1,2 Xin Hou,3
Christiane Quiniou,3 David Olson∗,4 Sylvain Chemtob∗.1 1Université de
Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada; 2McGill University, Montréal, QC,
Canada; 3Azrieli Research Center CHU Sainte-Justine CHU Sainte-Justine,
Montréal, QC, Canada; 4University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB) is a major cause of neonatal mortality
and morbidity. Neonatal morbidity associated with PTB is linked to
increased levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in amniotic fluid, fetal blood, and
gestational tissues. IL-6 has two receptors: the soluble receptor (sIL-6R)
and the membrane receptor (mIL-6R), which are thought to have opposing
roles in several inflammatory diseases. Current tocolytics are ineffective in
reducing PTB. Thus, we developed a small peptide, HSJ633, that targets
IL-6R and, when administered before and after the induction of labor,
prevents PTB and improves neonatal outcomes. We aimed to determine
the role of the soluble receptor in prematurity and assess whether HSJ633
modulated the signaling pathway of the soluble IL-6 receptor.
Methods: To determine the role of sIL-6R, we used two different models.
CD1 pregnant mice were injected with relevant E. coli-derived LPS (4
μg/kg and 6 μg/kg i.p.) on gestational days (GD) 16 and 17, respectively.
Soluble gp130 was administered (i.p. and s.c.) 30 minutes before the LPS
injection at GD16. In the second model, hyper IL-6 (sIL-6R + IL-6) was
injected (i.p.) at a doses of 4 and 8 μg at GD16. Prematurity, fetal mortality
and morbidity rates were evaluated. To determine the efficacy of HSJ633
on the sIL-6R, we used Ba/F3 cell lines treated with hyper IL-6 (100 ng/
mL) and HSJ633 (0.1 mM).
Results: Soluble gp130 inhibits signaling via the membrane-bound gp130
receptor. Administered 30 minutes before LPS, it reduced prematurity rates
from 91.88% to 20% (p < 0.05). In contrast, i.p. injection of hyper IL-6
(sIL-6R + IL-6) at 4 and 8 μg did not induce preterm labor, with gestation
lengths similar across groups (19.5 days for sham vs. 19.25 days for 4 μg
and 19 days for 8 μg). The number of viable pups was significantly lower
in the 4 μg group (15.5 for sham vs. 9.5 for 4 μg) (p < 0.05), and pup
weight at PT1 was also significantly higher in this group (p < 0.05). We
previously showed that HSJ633 modulates mIL-6R signaling by reducing
STAT3 activation while preserving ERK 1/2, AKT, and p38 activation.
Regarding the soluble receptor, HSJ633 also decreases STAT3 activation
in Ba/F3 cells stimulated with hyper IL-6 (p < 0.05).
Conclusion: Collectively, our data demonstrate that inhibition of the
soluble IL-6 receptor reduces prematurity, an effect comparable to HSJ633.
However, activation of the soluble IL-6 receptor is insufficient to induce
prematurity at doses of 4 and 8 μg, suggesting that IL-6 is involved
in amplification and sustenance of inflammation, but not in triggering
processes of labor. HSJ633 effectively targets the soluble IL-6 receptor
by reducing STAT3 activation, modulating signaling through both the
membrane and soluble receptors.
F-025
Development and Screening of a Controlled Release Tocolytic
Formulation in a Mouse Model of Short Cervix. Marina N Better†,
Laura Ensign∗. Johns Hopkins Univeristy, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: The rate of preterm birth (PTB) in the United States was
10.4% in 2023, which is no different than the global average. The only
clinical predictor for PTB is sonographic short cervix, however there
are no well-characterized preclinical models of premature cervical
remodeling. Up to 80% of those with a short cervix will have a PTB.
Additionally, there are no effective therapies on the market for PTB
prophylaxis. Prostaglandin (PG) synthesis is a major contributor to the
initiation of early tissue remodeling in the cervix during pregnancy. Here,
we describe the use of intraperitoneal (i.p.) dimethyl prostaglandinE2
(dmPGE2) to induce cervical remodeling and PTB within 24 h in mice to
guide development of novel therapies for PTB prevention. Indomethacin
(INDO) is a PG synthesis inhibitor making it a promising drug for
PTB treatment, however it has been associated with increased bleeding
and gastric side effects at high oral doses. Herein, two novel vaginal
formulations of INDO were tested for efficacy in preventing short-cervix
related PTB.
Methods: A low-dose INDO gelling formulation was prepared at a 100
mg/mL concentration by stirring INDO and Pluronic F127 powder (10%)
in MilliQ water at 4ºC overnight. An INDO nanosuspension (NS) was
formulated at a 1000 mg/mL concentration in 2% Pluronic F127 solution
via 10-hour wet milling with a bead-based tissue homogenizer and 0.5 mm
zirconium oxide beads at 4°C. NS characterization was done via dynamic
light scattering at a 173° scattering angle. Particles were chosen based on
size that would most effectively penetrate through cervicovaginal mucus
(< 300 nm). 11 μg of dmPGE2 was administered i.p. to CD-1 mice at E15.
Immediately following i.p. induction, 40 μL of INDO gelling solution
or NS was administered vaginally to the treatment groups. Mice were
checked twice daily for PTB until E20.
Results: In the dmPGE2 control group, 26.1% of dams had PTB resulting
in complete pregnancy loss, and 65.2% had PTB of 1-5 pups followed by
a live litter with reduced viability. 8.7% gave birth with no reduction in
litter viability. In the group treated with 1 mg/kg INDO NS, 12.5% had
PTB resulting in complete pregnancy loss, and 12.5% had PTB of 1-5
pups followed by a live litter with reduced viability. Importantly, 75%
gave birth with no reduction in litter viability. In the group treated with
0.1 mg/kg INDO gelling solution, 11.1% had PTB resulting in complete
pregnancy loss, and 44.4% had PTB of 1-5 pups followed by a live litter
with reduced viability. 44.4% gave birth with no reduction in litter viability
(P-value < 0.0001 Mantel Cox Test).
Conclusion: Although the NS was effective in preventing PTB in 75% of
dams, the LD50 of indomethacin in mice is 13 mg/kg, causing concern
for other side effects like excessive bleeding. When formulated as a low
dose, controlled release gel, INDO was effective in preventing PTB
and improving litter viability in 44.4% of dams, a significant increase
compared to the dmPGE2 control group.
F-026
Novel CADA Compound BL567 Reduces Oxytocin Receptor
Expression under IL-6 Proinflammatory Myometrial Conditions.
Irene Richardon†,1 Thomas Bell,2 Topprasad Kapri,2 Iain L.O. Buxton,1
Scott D Barnett∗.1 1University of Nevada, Reno School of Medicine, Reno,
NV, United States; 2University of Nevada, Reno, Reno, NV, United States.
Introduction: Parturition prior to 37 weeks is the result of preterm labor
(PTL) often leading to preterm birth and unwanted ramifications for both
mother and infant. The canonical initiation of labor is established in
part by the increased presence of oxytocin receptors (OXTR) at the cell
surface, thus favoring contraction of the maternal myometrium. From an
immunological perspective, myometrrial activation and labor process
168A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
in the absence of infection are a pro-inflammatory state termed ‘sterile
inflammation’. Established pro-inflammatory cytokines like Interleukin 6
(IL-6) have been reported to increase OXTR expression, thus conferring a
stimulus for active labor. Currently, there are no FDA approved therapies
that halt early labor or improve neonatal outcomes, highlighting an urgent
need for new treatment options. Here, we sought to determine how OXTR
expression in primary human uterine smooth muscle cells (phUSMC)
is modulated in the presence of IL-6, as well as the effect of a novel
cyclotriazadisulfonamide (CADA) compound, BL567, on the expression
of OXTR. We hypothesized that IL-6 will increase OXTR expression in
phUSMC, and the BL567 will mitigate this effect and return OXTR to
baseline expression to favor quiescence. (184 words)
Methods: Cell cultures of phUSMC were grown to confluence and growth
arrested for 48-hours. Cells were then exposed for 24 hours to either IL-6
(10 ng/mL), BL567 (10 μM) or both. Control cultures received diluent
(DMSO, 0.05%). Total cell protein was isolated and quantified via western
blot (n=3) to assess relative OXTR expression.
Results: We found that relative to control, IL-6 (10 ng/mL) increased
OXTR expression by 15.5% (± 6.0), BL567 (10 μM) decreased OXTR
expression by 51.4% (± 10.0), and that IL-6 + BL567 decreased OXTR
expression to 18.6% (± 4.9) below baseline, representing a net decrease
in OXTR expression of 34.1% in cells treated with both IL-6 and BL567.
Conclusion: The implications of sterile inflammatory responses within
the myometrium are not fully elucidated but are thought crucial to
parturition. Understanding inflammation in the context of preterm birth
offers mechanistic insights that can guide development of effective PTL
therapies. Our finding that BL567 not only reduces myometrial OXTR
expression, but reduces IL-6 mediated OXTR expression below baseline
indicates that this CADA compound may hold therapeutic potential.
F-027
Incidence of Recurrent Preterm Birth Before and After the PROLONG
Trial. Claire H Packer†,1 Taylor S Freret,2 Kaitlyn E James,1 Sarah E
Little,2 Alexander Melamed,1 Mark A Clapp.1 1Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, MA, United States; 2Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: After its initial FDA approval in 2011,
17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OH-P) was prescribed regularly to patients
with a history of spontaneous preterm birth (PTB) to reduce the risk
of recurrence. In the confirmatory efficacy trial published in 2020 (the
PROLONG trial), 17-OH-P did not decrease recurrent PTB. Prior reports
have raised questions about the generalizability of the PROLONG trial,
given that its population differed from that of the original efficacy trial
(Meis et al.). In a contemporary, large US-based cohort, our objective was
to assess if the PROLONG trial changed 17-OH-P prescribing practices
and to compare the rates of subsequent PTB before and after the trial.
Methods: We performed a pre-post analysis of singleton patients with a
history of PTB receiving care within a single, large health care system and
whose pregnancy started after July 1, 2016, and before February 28, 2023.
Pregnancies at 20 weeks between October 2019 and September 2020 were
excluded to allow for any potential practice changes to take effect; this
also excluded pregnancies delivered during the height of the COVID-19
pandemic. The primary outcomes were 17-OH-P use and PTB <35 weeks.
Secondary outcomes were PTB <32 weeks and PTB <37 weeks. Chisquare
tests were used for statistical testing. A logistic regression model
was constructed for the outcomes with the primary exposure being the
time period (pre vs. post-PROLONG trial) and controlled for factors
associated with preterm birth, including maternal age, race, ethnicity,
number of previous preterm births, and insurance status.
Results: 1719 patients in the pre-group and 1780 in the post-group were
included. 17-OH-P use decreased from 23.6% to 5.7% between the two
periods (p<0.001). There was no significant difference in rates of PTB
between the time periods (<35 weeks: 10.2 vs 10.7%, p=0.64; <32 weeks:
4.1 vs. 3.8%, p=0.70; <37 weeks: 23.2 vs. 24.5%, p=0.37). In the logistic
regression model, there was no significantly increased risk of preterm birth
for delivering after the PROLONG trial compared to before (adjusted odds
ratio for PTB<32 weeks for delivering in the post vs. pre-PROLONG
period: 1.00 (0.80-1.26)), despite the notable change in 17-OH-P use.
Conclusion: Within a single health system, 17-OH-P use dropped by
>75% after the PROLONG trial with no measurable changes in PTB rates.
These findings support the conclusions of the PROLONG trial, though
additional confirmatory research with larger sample sizes to investigate
for potential differential effects among population subgroups.
F-028
Evaluating the Impact of Wildfire Smoke Exposure on Preterm Birth.
Samantha Piekos†,1 Qi Wei†,1 Michael Strasser,1 Nathan Price∗,2 Leroy
Hood∗,1 Jennifer Hadlock∗.1 1Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, WA,
United States; 2Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Seattle, CA, United
States.
Introduction: Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our
time, and wildfires, fueled by climate and land-use changes, have increased
globally. Wildfire smoke is associated with higher morbidity and mortality,
and emerging evidence suggests a link between smoke exposure during
pregnancy and preterm birth. However, the full impact remains poorly
defined, and no studies have identified populations at higher risk for
preterm birth following smoke exposure.
Methods: In partnership with Providence St. Joseph Healthcare, we
analyzed electronic healthcare records of 273,726 singleton deliveries
after 20 weeks of gestation to individuals aged 18-44 in five western U.S.
states (CA, ID, MT, OR, WA) from 2015-2020. Of these, 20,508 (7.5%)
were preterm. Geocoded patient data was linked to daily PM2.5 estimates
from a validated machine-learning model that attributes particulate
matter (PM2.5) to wildfire smoke. We assessed exposure across pregnancy
and at specific gestational periods. We first compared smoke exposure
across demographics and social determinants of health (SDOH) using
the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Next, we developed machine learning
models predicting preterm birth based on 41 maternal, SDOH, and smoke
exposure factors. We used a 70:15:15 train-validation-test split, balanced
for class ratio, and conducted hyperparameter tuning via 10-fold crossvalidation.
Shapley values were used to determine feature importance in
the best-performing model.
Results: Of our cohort, 176,634 (64.5%) were exposed to wildfire smoke
at some point during pregnancy, with a median of 30 smoke days. Several
groups had significantly more smoke exposure compared to the overall
population, including younger individuals, those in middle socioeconomic
quintiles, those in rural areas, and individuals identifying as Black,
multiracial, Native American, or Pacific Islander (p<0.0001). In contrast,
Asian and Hispanic individuals had significantly fewer smoke days
(p<0.0001). A Gradient Boosting model outperformed others in predicting
preterm birth (F1: 0.888; PR-AUC: 0.90). Key predictors included parity,
age, the number of low-intensity smoke days (PM2.5<5 μg) during the
four weeks before delivery and second trimester, and maximum smoke
intensity during the four weeks before delivery. Notably, low-intensity
smoke exposure during the second trimester was a preterm birth predictor,
but it was predictive of term birth in the four weeks before delivery.
Conclusion: Certain populations experience disproportionate wildfire
smoke exposure during pregnancy, and this exposure is predictive of
preterm birth. Further research is required to understand wildfire smoke’s
impact on maternal-fetal health.
F-029
Reproductive Outcomes and Patient Satisfaction Following
Hysteroscopic Resection of Uterine Septae in Women with a History
of Recurrent Miscarriage. Thomas Sewell†,1 Muti Goloba†,1 Adila
Naseem†,1 Martha McCutcheon†,1 Raj Rai∗,1 Lesley Regan∗,1 Lynne
Sykes∗.1,2 1St Mary’s Hospital, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust,
London, United Kingdom; 2Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust,
London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: A uterine septum is the most common congenital uterine
anomaly and has been associated with both subfertility and recurrent
miscarriage (RM). Hysteroscopic septal resection (HSR) surgery has been
advocated for patients with otherwise unexplained RM. However, studies
to date have reported conflicting results on the reproductive benefits from
HSR. We hypothesized that HSR surgery in patients with uterine septae
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 169A
Friday Posters
and a history RM will lead to improved outcomes comparable women
with a structurally normal uterus and history of RM. Furthermore, we
aim to report on patient satisfaction following HSR.
Methods: A retrospective case-control study was performed comparing
outcomes in patients with a history of otherwise unexplained RM and a
uterine septum who had undergone HSR (cases) to a group of patients
with unexplained RM and a structurally normal uterus (controls). All
patients had been managed by a specialist team and had undergone
treatment between April 2015 and April 2023. All patients underwent
investigations for RM including relevant blood tests, imaging and
hysteroscopy. Those with other identifiable potential causes of RM were
excluded. Reproductive outcomes were collected from medical records
and by telephone questionnaire. Patient satisfaction was assessed using
a five point Likert scale.
Results: A total of 214 patients in the HSR group and 237 patients in
the control group were included in the study. Within the HSR group the
rates of first trimester and second trimester miscarriage were significantly
reduced and the live birth rate significantly increased (28.4% vs 47.5%
p <0.05) following HSR. The live birth rate was significantly higher
in the HSR group compared to controls (58% vs 45% p < 0.05). The
rates of first and second trimester miscarriage rate were similar between
groups (38.3% vs 42.2% and 3.3% vs 3.8% respectively p >0.05). Rates
of ectopic pregnancy, intrauterine death after 24 weeks gestation and
conception delays of 12 months or longer were also similar between
groups. Pregnancy outcomes including the birth weight, gestation at
delivery and pregnancy complication rates were similar between the two
groups. Patient satisfaction was higher in the HSR group although this
did not reach statistical significance.
Conclusion: These results suggest that HSR surgery is associated with
improved live birth rates in patients with otherwise unexplained recurrent
miscarriage compared to controls. HSR appears to be associated with
high levels of patient satisfaction and does not appear to increase later
pregnancy complications compared to controls.
F-030
Permanent Contraception in the Military Health System Increased
After the Dobbs Decision. Ann Lehto,1 Lyna Cherikh,2 Apryl Susi,2
Katerina Shvartsman,2 Logan Peterson,2 Cade Nylund∗,2 Jill Brown∗.2
1Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Bethesda, MD, United
States; 2Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda,
MD, United States.
Introduction: The June 2022 Dobbs decision may have impacted female
permanent contraception in the Military Health System (MHS), potentially
confounded by changes in care delivery during the COVID-19 pandemic
beginning in March 2020.
Methods: This repeated cross sectional study queried MHS electronic
records of females aged 21-49 from January 2018 to February 2023,
including 7 months post-Dobbs. We calculated monthly encounter rates
for female permanent contraception procedures using ICD-10 and CPT
codes and evaluated observed versus expected monthly rates over time.
Poisson regression was used to evaluate differences in time periods, age,
marital status, active-duty status, rank, and TRICARE region.
Results: Female permanent contraception procedure rates increased
9.8% in the post-Dobbs period compared to pre-Dobbs (aRR 1.09 [95%
CI:1.06-1.12]) for all beneficiaries, 27.7% in active-duty (aRR 1.28 [95%
CI:1.20-1.37]), and 18% in TRICARE South region compared to North
(aRR 1.18 [95% CI:1.16-1.21]). In the five-month period after Dobbs,
rates increased 14.7% (aRR 1.15 [95% CI 1.10-1.20] compared to the
five-months preceding Dobbs. This occurred in the setting of lower rates
for all beneficiaries in pandemic years 1 and 2 compared to pre-pandemic
(aRR 0.79 [95% CI:0.77-0.82] and 0.86 [95% CI:0.84-0.89], respectively).
Post-Dobbs, procedure rates increased amongst all age groups except
45-49, married status, and senior enlisted rank compared to pre-Dobbs.
Conclusion: Female permanent contraception procedure rates in the
MHS increased with the Dobbs decision, following a period of lower
rates during the pandemic. The Dobbs decision impacted contraceptive
decision-making in military beneficiaries.
F-031
Characterizing Procedural Aspects of Feticidal Injections Across
the Gestation. Marie Boller†, Kimberly Ryan†, Rachel Mnuk†, Emily
Boniface, Ashley Benson, Adam Crosland∗. Oregon Health & Science
University, Portland, OR, United States.
Introduction: Abortion care is essential healthcare—recent abortion
restrictions have forced individuals to travel out-of-state, delaying care.
In Oregon, abortion is healthcare, and as such does not have legislative
interference with medical care. Our institution provides necessary care
to those at later gestational durations who would otherwise lack access.
We perform intracardiac potassium chloride (KCl) injections under
ultrasound guidance to induce fetal asystole before abortions for pregnant
individuals ≥ 22 weeks. There is limited data on the technical aspects of
feticidal procedures later in pregnancy including dose of KCl, needle
gauge selection and procedure duration. This study aims to assess how
procedural variables change with advancing gestational duration and
examine their impact on procedure duration.
Methods: We conducted a descriptive retrospective study examining
pregnant individuals with singleton pregnancies undergoing an abortion at
≥ 22 weeks at Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU) between June
1, 2021-June 1, 2023. Demographic, procedure-related, and sonographic
variables were abstracted from electronic health records including:
procedure duration (minutes [min]), KCl dose (milliequivalents [mEq]),
anesthetic use, needle gauge (G) selection, trainee involvement, presence
of fetal anomaly, estimated fetal weight (EFW). Procedure duration
was defined from time of needle placement to fetal cardiac asystole
on ultrasound; prolonged procedures defined as exceeding 10 minutes.
Gestational groups were defined as 22w0d-24w6d, 25w0d-31w6d, and
≥32w0d. Percentages and means/standard deviations were compared by
gestational duration and procedure duration using chi-squared, Fisher’s
exact, or t-tests.
Results: Ninety-nine (N=99) subjects met inclusion criteria; 27.3%,
62.6%, and 10.1% of subjects were 22w0d-24w6d, 25w0d-31w6d,
and ≥32w0d respectively. Most procedures (65.7%) included trainees
and did not receive anesthesia (90.9%). The median [range] procedure
duration was 11min [3-41]. Larger gauge (18G) needles were only
used for individuals ≥ 25w0d, most commonly ≥ 32w0d (p=0.040 by
gestational group). A non-significant increase in KCl dose was observed
with advancing gestational age. Most procedures were prolonged (55.6%);
procedure duration did not differ by gestational group (p=0.159). Fetal
anomalies (p=0.007) and increased EFW (p=0.005) were significantly
associated with prolonged procedures.
Conclusion: The study found larger needles and higher doses of KCl were
increasingly utilized with advancing gestational duration. Fetal anomalies
and a higher EFW were factors associated with prolonged procedure times,
suggesting their importance in counseling. These insights are critical for
informing patient-centered counseling and technical decision-making,
ensuring evidence-based reproductive care.
F-032
The Association of Prostaglandins and Related Eicosanoids with
Dysmenorrhea in Adolescents. Chandrashekara N Kyathanahalli,1,2
Frank Tu,1,2 Kevin Hellman.1,2 1Endeavor Health, Evanston, IL, United
States; 2University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine, Chicago,
IL, United States.
Introduction: The etiology of dysmenorrhea is not well understood but
is believed to be influenced by elevated uterine prostaglandins. Menstrual
pain typically begins within a year after menarche. It is currently unknown
whether the pain experiences are associated with elevated menstrual
prostaglandins.
Methods: We prospectively recruited participants within 2 years after
menarche (mean age = 13.6 years) to provide tampons/pads worn
overnight during menstruation. Their self-rated severity of menstrual
pain (0-10 numerical rating scale) and medication use were recorded.
Menstrual effluent volume was estimated by the weight of samples and
hemolysis by spectrophotometry. Prostaglandins E2, F2α, and 12-HETE
were measured by ELISA. We compared those with pain>0 (n=33) and
those without menstrual pain=0 (n=18) by calculating the median [IQR] of
170A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
eicosanoid concentrations and with the Kruskal-Wallis test. Additionally,
eicosanoid metabolites in the menstrual effluent in a subset of participants
were analyzed using UHPLC-MS/MS.
Results: There were no group differences in age, race, days from
menarche, material type, duration of wearing tampons/pads, effluent
volume or hemolysis. Dysmenorrhea participants had higher menstrual
PGF2α (4592 [1692, 8964], p=0.014), but not PGE2 (7173 [2600, 10168],
p=0.053) or 12-HETE (36318 [23762, 60739], p=.305) than pain-free
controls [PGF2α:1117 (73, 4497), PGE2: 3577 (1022, 5120); 12-HETE:
29655 (13466, 51592)]. The correlations between PGF2α (r=0.37,
p=0.004) or PGE2 concentration (r=0.28, p=0.046) and menstrual pain
intensity were moderate to small. Overall, there were positive correlations
between menstrual effluent volume and eicosanoid concentrations (r’s
>0.4, p’s< 0.001). Intriguingly, participants with menstrual pain taking
NSAIDs had a high total content of PGF2α (66214 [43074,164766])
compared to those without menstrual pain (19143 [6078,47561], p=
0.04). UHPLC-MS/MS revealed that 12-HETE, 14, 15 EET, 15-HETE,
18cdLTB4, LTB4, and PGF2α were higher in the effluent of dysmenorrhea
participants than controls. Conversely, participants with dysmenorrhea
had less 6-kPGF1α compared to controls.
Conclusion: Shortly after menarche, PGF2α can be reliably measured
in both pads and tampons, accounting for effluent volume. Differences
in prostaglandin content between those with and without menstrual pain
emerge shortly after menarche. The correlation between prostaglandin
concentration and effluent volume is consistent with its hypothesized
role in endometrial sloughing. However, the limited correlation between
prostaglandin concentration and menstrual pain and the identification of
other differentially expressed candidate molecules suggests inflammatory
processes outside the prostaglandin pathway are also involved in menstrual
pain.
F-034
Peritoneal Fluid from Rhesus Macaques with Endometriosis Attenuates
Anoctamin 1 in the Fallopian Tube. Addie Luo, Ov Slayden∗. Oregon
Health and Science University, Beaverton, OR, United States.
Introduction: The presence of endometriosis is reported to alter fallopian
tube ciliation, ciliary beat frequency, and smooth muscle peristalsis.
Anoctamin 1 (ANO1; TMEM16A) is a voltage-gated calcium-activated
chloride ion channel that plays critical roles in smooth muscle contraction
and primary ciliogenesis. We hypothesized that ANO1 could mediate
the effects of peritoneal fluid on tubal function. To explore this, we
examined the ampulla of rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) with and
without endometriosis for the expression of ANO1. We also conducted
an in vitro experiment in which segments of the ampulla were treated
with peritoneal fluid from animals with and without endometriosis. We
also characterized and compared transcription and immunohistochemical
(IHC) localization of adenylate kinase 7 (AK7), a mitochondrial-dwelling
nucleotide converting enzyme with critical roles in cellular kinesis, and
forkhead protein box J1 (FOXJ1) as a marker of cilia abundance.
Methods: Oviducts from endometriotic and endometriosis-free macaques
were obtained at necropsy (control follicular phase n=5, control luteal
phase n=6, endometriotic follicular phase n=5, endometriotic luteal n=5).
Replicate blocks of ampulla were prepared for IHC or frozen for RNA
isolation. Fresh tissue samples were prepared for a hanging insert (in
vitro) experiment. Briefly, ampulla from 3 animals without any clinical
history of reproductive abnormalities were placed on cell culture inserts
in a 24-well culture plate and were assigned to the following treatments
(E2-only [control], endometriosis-free peritoneal, and peritoneal fluid
from monkeys with endometriosis).
Results: Expression of ANO1 and FOXJ1 was found to be increased
during the follicular phase and significantly decreased during the luteal
phase of the menstrual cycle. The same trend was observed for AK7,
although not statistically significant. The presence of endometriosis
increased levels of FOXJ1 and AK7 and decreased the expression of
ANO1. AK7 localized to the ciliated ampullary epithelial cells, and ANO1
localized to the budding secretary cells and the myosalpinx. Interestingly,
peritoneal fluid from animals with endometriosis significantly reduced
ANO1 transcript and IHC staining but had no effect on FOXJ1 or AK7
in ampullary segments in vitro.
Conclusion: Attenuated ANO1 might play a role in the altered secretory
activity and muscular movement in the oviduct in monkeys with
endometriosis. While the factors mediating this action of peritoneal fluid
from monkeys with endometriosis remain undiscovered, the dwindled
secretory and peristaltic activities could negatively impact gamete
transportation. Attenuation of ANO1 may be a marker of subfertility
observed in women with endometriosis.
F-035
Functional Assessment of CD49a+CD56+CD16-CD3- Natural Killer
Cells in a Baboon Model of Endometriosis. Dorothy K. Sojka∗,1 Bruna
K. Tatematsu†,1 Yong Song†,2 Samantha Hrbek†,2 Asgerally T Fazleabas∗.2
1Loyola University Chicago, Maywood, IL, United States; 2Michigan State
University, Grand Rapids, MI, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is a painful multifactorial disorder defined
by the presence and growth of endometrial tissue outside the uterus
affecting ~10% women of reproductive age, causing chronic pelvic pain,
and reducing their fertility. Although the etiology is unknown emerging
clinical data supports a dysregulated immune system as a potential driver
of disease. Natural killer (NK) cells are part of the innate immune system
that act quickly to recognize and eliminate tumor cells, transformed cells,
and virally infected cells. Much of what we know about NK cells comes
from studies that analyzed peripheral blood and spleen. Previously, we
reported the heterogeneity of NK cells in murine uterus to include tissueresident
NK cells that expressed the tissue residency receptor CD49a, an
integrin alpha subunit, not expressed on peripheral NK cells. In women
with endometriosis, several studies reported impaired NK cell activity, but
the role of tissue localization in NK cell function and how peripheral NK
cells relate to NK cells in different sites is unknown. Here, we hypothesized
that at the onset of endometriosis, the peritoneal NK cells’ function shifts
from immune surveillance to tolerance thereby contributing to the evasion
and establishment of endometrial lesions.
Methods: Here, we used the established baboon model of endometriosis
and multicolor flow cytometry to perform phenotypic and functional
assays on NK cell subsets isolated from peripheral blood, peritoneal fluid,
and endometrial tissues during the course of endometriosis.
Results: We found CD49a to be highly expressed on CD56+CD16-CD3-
NK cells in the endometrium of baboons with and without endometriosis.
Interestingly, the frequency of CD49a+CD56+CD16-CD3- NK cells in the
peritoneal cavity was reduced in baboons with confirmed endometriosis.
Moreover, CD49a was not expressed on circulating NK cells in peripheral
blood with or without endometriosis, further confirming CD49a as a
tissue residency receptor, control animals (n=5) and endometriosis (n=2).
Conclusion: Taken together, our data provide an anatomic analysis of
NK cells in lymphoid and nonlymphoid tissues in control and diseased
baboons. A deep analysis of NK target cell recognition receptors
and effector functions would aid in identifying potential targets for
immunotherapy in treating endometriosis.
F-036
Exposure to Green Light-Emitting Aiodes Alleviates Endometriosis-
Associated Pain in Mice. Sun-Wei Guo∗, Jing Dong, Xishi Liu. Shanghai
OB/GYN Hospital, Shanghai, China.
Introduction: Pain is the number one complaint from women with
endometriosis that prompts them to seek medical attention. Pain
negatively impacts on their quality of life, and is a potent inducer of
stress. Currently, there is no cure for endometriosis, and the treatment of
endometriosis-associated pain can be surgery and/or hormonal medication.
However, aside from cost and morbidity, surgery carries a certain risk
of recurrence and post-operative medication is often required. While
hormonal medication can be effective, they have various side-effects and
their discontinuation would lead to symptom relapse. In recent years,
exposure to green light-emitting diodes (gLED) has been shown to be
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 171A
Friday Posters
antinociceptive in preclinical and clinical studies. We hypothesized that
exposure to gLED may alleviate endometriosis-associated pain in mice
with induced endometriosis.
Methods: We induced endometriosis in 16 Balb/C female mice by
intraperitoneal injection of uterine fragments harvested from another 8
donor mice. Four weeks after the induction of endometriosis, the mice
were randomly divided into gLED and white LED (wLED) groups in
equal sizes. Mice in the gLED and wLED groups were exposed daily
to gLED and wLED, respectively, for 8 hours (8:00-16:00) for 2 weeks,
and were then sacrificed. All lesions were harvested and processed for
immunohistochemistry analysis of E-cadherin, α-Sma, phosphorylated
Creb (p-Creb), adrenoreceptor β2 (Adrb2), κ- and μ-opioid receptors (Kor
and Mor), and cannabinoid receptor 1 and 2 (Cb1 and Cb2), as well as
Masson trichrome staining. In addition, hotplate test was administrated 2
days before the induction, and 10, 24, 34, and 40 days after the induction.
During LED exposure therapy, mice were maintained in their customdesigned
cages with free access to food and water. Green (~525 nm in
wavelength) or white LED light belts (both 5W, 5V) were placed on
the upper edge of the cage to allow global diffusion of light, with the
luminance averaging 60 lux and free from other ambient light.
Results: All mice survived the experiment, but 1 wLED mouse had
abscess and was thus removed from the analysis. Mice exposed to gLED
had significantly reduced lesion weight and significantly longer hotplate
latency as compared with that of wLED mice. In addition, lesions from
the gLED mice exhibited increased E-cadherin staining, reduced α-Sma
staining and reduced fibrosis, but the difference did not reach statistical
significance. Lesions from gLED mice displayed significantly lower
staining of p-Creb, Adrb2 and Cb2 but increased Mor staining. Thus,
our data demonstrate that exposure to gLED significantly alleviates pain
and reduces lesion weight in mice with induced endometriosis, possibly
through the suppression of the CREB-ADRB2-CB2 signaling pathway.
Conclusion: Our study raises the possibility of either using gLED or
wearing green eyeglasses as a safe and economical means to alleviate
pains in women with endometriosis.
F-037
Exploring Genetic Polymorphisms in Sex Hormone-Driven Signaling in
Endometriosis: A Systematic Review. Esra Cetin†,1 Steven Doctorman†,2
Maria Carolina Rodriguez Steube†,3 Zainab Yusufali Motiwala†,4 Elizabeth
Varghese†,5 Mariano Alba†,6 Alejandra Satray-Rodriguez†,6 Ananya
Dewan†,3 Abigail Coco†,3 Dewan Pranav†,7 Hannah Nelson†,8 Yunah
Han†,3 Elizabeth Schlant†,8 James Segars∗,8 Bhuchitra Singh∗.3 1Michigan
State University, Flint, MI, United States; 2Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
MI, United States; 3Johns Hopkins Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United
States; 4Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, Aligarh, India;
5Renaissance School of Medicine at Stony Brook University, Stony Brook,
NY, United States; 6University of Nevada, Reno, NV, United States, Reno,
NV, United States; 7University of Nevada, Reno, NV, United States; 8Johns
Hopkins Medicine, Baltimore, MI, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is a complex, sex hormone-dependent
gynecological condition. While sex hormone signaling and hormoneinduced
inflammation are commonly studied aspects of its etiopathogenesis,
the exact mechanisms remain elusive. This systematic review aimed to
evaluate genetic polymorphisms associated with hormone signaling in
endometriosis.
Methods: We conducted a comprehensive search for observational and
interventional human studies on genetic polymorphisms in hormonal
regulation related to endometriosis, published in English, between January
1995-January 2024, across databases such as PubMed, EBSCOhost,
Cochrane Library, Embase, Scopus, and Web of Science Core Collection,
following PRISMA guidelines with assistance from a data informationist.
Six reviewers screened the studies and then descriptively analyzed the
extracted data.
Results: We identified 119 studies that met inclusion and exclusion criteria
for sex hormone-related gene polymorphisms in endometriosis. These
were divided into 3 groups: sex hormone receptors (62 studies), COX-2 (6
studies), and CYP metabolism genes (51 studies). Significant associations
with increased endometriosis risk were found in 50% of sex hormone
receptor studies, 66.7% of COX-2 studies, and 23.5% of metabolism gene
studies. PR polymorphisms were significantly correlated with increased
endometriosis risk in 83.3% of the 12 studies across 7 countries. ER-β
polymorphisms were associated with increased endometriosis risk in
52.9% of 17 studies across 10 countries. Only 4 studies stratified results
by disease stage. Two studies linked the ER-β+1730 G/A variant, and
1 study linked the COX-2 variant (-765G) to Stage 3/4 endometriosis,
suggesting chronic inflammation through an estrogen feedback loop.
Conclusion: PR and ER-β polymorphisms may explain progesterone
resistance and inflammation mechanisms in endometriosis. COX-2
alterations could contribute to chronic inflammation and interindividual
pain variability. Future large-scale studies with diverse populations and
staging are needed to understand pathogenesis and clinical implications.
F-038
Drug Repurposing in Endometriosis: Zinc and Cooper as Potential
Endometriosis Therapies After Being Prioritized by Systems
Pharmacology. Francisco Jose Sanz, Patricia Sebastian-Leon, Pablo
Garcia-Acero, Alicia Quiñonero, Diaz-Gimeno Patricia∗. IVI-RMA Global
Research Alliance, IVI Foundation, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria
La Fe (IIS La Fe), Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: Current treatments for endometriosis are only palliative
and prone to side effects, since they address to consequences instead of
causes of the disease. In addition, laparoscopy, the most effective therapy,
is invasive and negatively affects ovarian reserve and fertility. Leveraging
the boost of omic technologies and systems pharmacology, a previous
study performed by our group proposed zinc and copper as new potential
therapeutics for endometriosis. Our objective is to validate the effect of
both compounds in an endometriosis cell model.
Methods: To study the effect of zinc and copper on endometriosis
progression, cell proliferation and cell migration were evaluated. Cell
proliferation was studied with a MTT assay in human endometrial
epithelial cells (HEEC) and an endometriosis cell model (12Z cells),
cultured with different concentrations of candidate compounds for 24h.
Cell migration capacity was evaluated by a scratch assay in 12Z cells
treated with candidate compounds at selected concentrations according
to viability results. In all experiments, differences were evaluated using
a t-test and p-values < 0.05 were considered significant.
Results: Zinc induces cell death (64.3%) in endometriosis cells at 150 μM,
while this concentration is safe for endometrial epithelial cells, suggesting
that zinc might affect only endometriosis cells without affecting healthy
ones. Higher zinc concentrations produced a significant detrimental effect
on cell viability of healthy endometrial cells (24.9 and 50.4% in 150
and 175 μM, respectively) and almost a complete loss of endometriosis
ones. Copper exerts a detrimental effect on cell viability in both healthy
and endometriosis cells from 20 μM; however, this detrimental effect is
significantly more pronounced in the endometriosis cell model from 40 μM
(36.1% vs 61.2% at 40 μM, and 38.2 vs 81.6 % at 50 μM). On the other
hand, zinc and copper reduced cell migration capacity of endometriosis
cells (vehicle treated cells = 85.8%, zinc treated cells =69.4 and copper
treated cells=57.4%).
Conclusion: Zinc and copper are able to suppress cell proliferation and
cell migration, two of the most important phenotypes in endometriosis.
Moreover, the fact that these compounds were predicted by systems
pharmacology suggests that both compounds address to molecular targets
with a strong influence in the disease. In addition, these compounds are
already approved for other indications, hence allowing drug repurposing,
which reduces times and costs of clinical trials, accelerating its translation
into the clinical practice. Remarkably, zinc, the most promising candidate
compound according to our results, is currently commercialized as a
nutraceutical; hence ensuring its safety into the clinical practice.
172A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
F-039
Alterations in Fibroid Protein Expression in Response to Compression
Detected Using a Spheroid Tumor Model. Carolyn Nietupski†, Megan
Sax∗, Andreja Moset Zupan∗, Emily Hurley∗, Stacey C Schutte∗.
University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, United States.
Introduction: Uterine fibroids and the surrounding myometrium
experience compressive forces as the tumors grow. We hypothesize that
these forces are involved in fibroid progression. In this study, we utilized
an embedded spheroid tumor model with compression. Proteomics
analysis was conducted to determine the influence of compression on
protein synthesis.
Methods: Human myometrial and fibroid cells were isolated from uterine
tissues procured from consenting patients undergoing hysterectomy or
myomectomy. Patient-matched cells isolated from 3 subjects that had
not been on hormonal modulators for at least 3 months before surgery
were used. Spheroids were fabricated by pelleting 5x105 cells and
culturing them for 7 days for spheroid maturation. The spheroids were
then embedded in 1% agarose gels and cultured for 7 days with 0 or 6.4
mmHg compression. The UC Proteomics Core identified and quantified
proteins in the samples by tryptic digestion followed by LCMS using
a label-free quantification method. P-values were calculated using the
t-test background-based method. Enrichment analyses were conducted
to determine overrepresented GO terms and KEGG pathways, and
STRING network analysis was used to identify functional associations
between proteins.
Results: A total of 2913 proteins were identified with a 99% FDR
confidence and at least 2 peptides per protein in the samples. Of these,
555 were associated with cell junctions, 265 with focal adhesions, and
148 with extracellular matrix with an FDR <0.05. When comparing
compression versus static cultures, 266 significant differentially expressed
proteins were identified from fibroid spheroids while 248 proteins were
identified from myometrial spheroids. Of these, only 19 were similarly
downregulated and 47 genes similarly upregulated. Comparisons of fibroid
and myometrial cells under compression identified 373 differentially
expressed proteins. GO Biological Process enrichment analysis shows
proteins uniquely upregulated in fibroid cells with compression are
associated with extracellular matrix organization (strength 0.79, FDR =
3.43x108) and regulation of cell migration (strength 0.56, FDR=1.44x108).
KEGG analysis identified differences in PI3K-Akt signaling (0.53
strength, FDR=0.0016).
Conclusion: Fibroid cells respond to compressive forces by regulating
extracellular matrix production and processing differently than myometrial
cells. We identified several potential signaling pathways involved,
including PI3K-Akt signaling which we also found to be altered with
cyclic stretch in previous studies. Investigations such as this contribute
to our understanding of the role of mechanics in fibroid development and
may lead to the development of non-hormonal targeted therapies for the
treatment of uterine fibroids.
F-040
Tryptophan 2,3-Dioxygenase Modulates the Extracellular Matrix
Deposition in Leiomyomas via TGF-β3/miR-200c Axis. Tsai-Der Chuang,
Nhu Ton, Shawn Rysling, Omid Khorram. The Lundquist Institute at
UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA, United States.
Introduction: Our previous work indicated that leiomyomas
overexpressed tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (TDO2), TGF-β3, and
decreased miR-200c levels as compared with paired myometrium. The
objective of this study was to determine the cross-talk between TDO2,
TGF-β3 and miR-200c on extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition in
leiomyomas.
Methods: Myometrium and leiomyoma tissue samples were collected
from patients who had not received treatment for at least three months
prior to surgery. These samples were used to isolate smooth muscle cells
from the myometrium (MSMC) and leiomyoma (LSMC). The expression
levels of TDO2, TGF-β3, FN1, COL1A1, COL3A1 and miR-200c were
evaluated using qRT-PCR or western blotting. Manipulation of TDO2
expression was achieved through lentivirus-mediated overexpression
or siRNA-mediated downregulation. The direct interactions between
miR-200c and TDO2, TGF-β3, as well as FN1, were assessed through a
luciferase reporter assay. Data were analyzed using Student’s t-tests and
one-way ANOVA, with Tukey’s HSD employed for post hoc comparisons.
Results: Lentivirus transduction of primary myometrial cells for TDO2
overexpression led to a significant increase in TGF-β3 levels, while
simultaneously reducing miR-200c expression. Conversely, knocking
down TDO2 in primary leiomyoma cells via siRNA transfection resulted
in a significant decrease in TGF-β3 levels, and an elevation in miR-200c
expression. Additionally, a luciferase reporter assay confirmed that TDO2,
TGF-β3 and FN1 all are direct targets of miR-200c in leiomyomas.
Finally, treatment of primary leiomyoma cells with TGF-β3 (5ng/ml)
for 48 hrs significantly induced the expression of TDO2, FN1, COL1A1,
COL3A1, which was accompanied by a reduction in miR-200c levels.
These findings highlight a cross-talk between TDO2, TGF-β3, and miR-
200c in leiomyomas.
Conclusion: In summary, the inverse relationship between the expression
of TDO2, and TGF-β3 with miR-200c is indicative of a feed forward
mechanism that promotes ECM deposition in leiomyomas.
F-041
Molecular and Cellular Analysis of Reactive Oxygen Species and
Hormones in an Ex Vivo Leiomyoma Model. Ross Patrick McNally,
Huma Asif, Jian-Jun Wei, Julie Kim∗. Northwestern University, Chicago,
IL, United States.
Introduction: Uterine leiomyomas (ULM), non-cancerous tumors of
the myometrium (MM), occur in 77% of women of reproductive age
and are the leading cause of hysterectomies in the US. Treatment options
are limited, with surgery being most common. Thus, a new and effective
intervention is desperately needed. We have previously demonstrated a
key role of oxidative stress in ULMs in promoting senescence and cell
death. Given the important role of hormones in the pathophysiology
of ULM we aimed to elucidate the interaction between hormones and
oxidative stress on ULM.
Methods: In this study, we investigated the interaction of hormones with
oxidative stress in ULMs, through the assessment of cell metabolism,
senescence, and the transcriptome. ULM tissues were collected from
consented patients and fibroid cells treated with hormones (E2 and R5020),
hormone antagonists (Fulvestrant and Onapristone), and paraquat (PQ),
an inducer of superoxide anions.
Results: In the presence of paraquat, expression of p21, a marker of
senescence, increased. Addition of hormones resulted in the attenuation
of p21 expression in the paraquat treated cell lines. To identify additional
genes impacted by paraquat and hormones, ULM cultured as threedimensional
spheroids, treated with paraquat, hormones, and antagonists
alone or in combination, were subjected to RNA-seq. RNAseq analysis
revealed that combined treatment with hormones, antagonists, and
paraquat resulted in the differential expression of 3309 genes (FDR
Adj p value, p ≤0.05) compared to control. Pathway analysis indicated
an enrichment of metabolic associated genes linked to oxidative
phosphorylation and glycolysis in ULM spheroids treated with hormones,
both paraquat and hormones, or the combination of hormones, paraquat,
and antagonists. To further understand the role of hormones in metabolic
functions, ULM cells were treated with PQ, hormones, and hormone
antagonists were subjected to the metabolic assay, Seahorse; significant
changes in ULM mitochondrial function were observed as a result. All
treatment groups caused a decrease in maximal respiration and spare
respiratory capacity, whereas an increase in proton leak was observed
with paraquat, as determined via measurement of oxygen consumption
rate (OCR). However, glycolysis, glycolytic capacity, and glycolytic
reserve remained largely unchanged since the extracellular acidification
rate (ECAR) was not altered when ULM cells were exposed to these
treatments.
Conclusion: In summary, our results demonstrate that hormones play an
important role in the context of high oxidative stress, promoting survival
of ULM. Supported by NCI R01CA254367.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 173A
Friday Posters
F-042
Vitamin D Analog Doxercalciferol Inhibits Inflammation and Fibrosis
in Human Uterine Fibroids Using 3D Organoid Model. Mohamed Ali†,
Mervat Omran, Obianuju Sandra Madueke Laveaux∗, Ayman Al-Hendy∗.
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Uterine Fibroids (UFs) are the most common benign tumors
in reproductive-age women, with current treatment options primarily
being surgical. Given the association between vitamin D deficiency and
UF risk, exploring the Vitamin D receptor (VDR) agonist Doxercalciferol
(DCL) as a potential therapeutic option for UFs is of significant interest
Methods: Our team was the first to develop a 3D organoid model for
human UF tissues derived from corresponding stem cells (SCs) in vitro.
This model preserves key aspects of tissue scaffolding, enabling SCs
to undergo appropriate differentiation and proliferation in response to
an estrogen-mimicking microenvironment, closely resembling in vivo
conditions. In this study, we investigated the potential anti-UF effects
of the VDR analog DCL using 3D UF organoids, compared to untreated
controls in terms of proliferation using cell viability assay, ECM
accumulation using Mason trichrome staining and secretion/expression
of several pro-inflammatory, angiogeneic, and profibrotic cytokines using
ELISA and IHC staining, respectively.
Results: DCL exhibited dose-dependent antiproliferative effects on
human UF cells in both 2D and 3D culture conditions. The MTT cell
viability assay revealed that DCL, at concentrations of 100 and 1000
nM, significantly inhibited the proliferation of 2D-cultured UF cell line
(HuLM) as well as UFSCs isolated from two patients after 3 days of
treatment. Furthermore, 3D UF organoids treated with 100 nM DCL
showed a reduction in fibrosis, as indicated by Mason trichrome staining,
underscoring the antifibrotic effects of DCL. Subsequent analysis of
the UF organoid secretome, following 100 nM DCL treatment, using
Multiplex ELISA, demonstrated a significant decrease in the secretion
of the profibrotic cytokine transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β1), as
well as angiogenic cytokines VEGF-A and PDGF AB/BB. Additionally,
DCL treatment (100 nM for 12 days) of UF organoids from two patients
led to a significant reduction in the secretion of inflammatory cytokines
IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, and IFN-γ, as well as a downregulation of TNF-α and
NF-kB (p65) expression, as confirmed by IHC staining
Conclusion: Our studies demonstrate the promising anti-UF effects of
DCL, suggesting it as a safe, non-hormonal, long-term, and cost-effective
therapeutic alternative to Vitamin D3 for UFs. Notably, DCL offers a
lower risk of hypercalcemia compared to therapeutic doses of Vitamin
D3, making it a potentially advantageous clinical option pending further
research.
F-043
A Biomaterial Model of Uterine Fibroids: Understanding Fibroblast
Activation in Fibroid Formation. Allison Moses†, Erika Moore∗.
University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States.
Introduction: Uterine fibroids are the most common gynecological
tumor, affecting up to 80% of women by age 50. However, the cellular
mechanisms behind fibroid development remain poorly understood due
to the lack of relevant research models. Transforming growth factor
beta 3 (TGF-β3) levels and its induction of extracellular matrix (ECM)
deposition are observed in fibroid tissue compared to healthy myometrial
tissue. Additionally, higher macrophage density in fibroids suggests a
potential immunomodulatory role in fibroid development, given that
macrophages produce TGF-β3.
Methods: To explore the role of TGF-β3, we designed a physiologically
relevant platform mimicking the fibroid microenvironment. Our
poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG)-based hydrogel model allows investigation
of uterine fibroblast activation following TGF-β3 treatment in the presence
or absence of macrophages. We hypothesize that macrophage-secreted
TGF-β3 activates uterine fibroblasts, driving myofibroblast differentiation
and ECM production, contributing to fibroid formation.This is the first in
vitro model for uterine fibroid development, focusing on the interactions
between human uterine fibroblasts and macrophages and their role in
fibroid development.
Results: After encapsulation in our PEG hydrogel system, we assessed
human uterine fibroblast (HUF) viability, with over 80% of the cells alive
after 7 days, confirming the hydrogel’s ability to support cell survival.
Next, HUFs were encapsulated for 7 days and treated with 0 ng/mL, 10
ng/mL, 20 ng/mL, and 100 ng/mL of TGF-β3. Fibroblast activation was
evaluated by measuring ECM components associated with myofibroblast
activation, such as α-SMA and collagen I (COL1A1). Confocal
microscopy revealed increased α-SMA and COL1A1 levels in response
to higher TGF-β3 concentrations, indicating that fibroblast activation in
our hydrogel model mimics that of fibroid fibroblasts. These findings
support the hypothesis that high TGF-β3 levels contribute to fibroblast
differentiation during fibroid development.
Conclusion: This study establishes our PEG hydrogel system as a platform
for mimicking the uterine fibroid microenvironment, offering a means to
investigate fibroblast activation and mechanisms driving fibroid growth.
Future studies using this model will explore macrophage-fibroblast
interactions to better understand fibroid pathogenesis. Ultimately, this
platform may help identify therapeutic targets for treating or preventing
uterine fibroids, addressing a significant health burden for women.
F-044
Towards Prevention of Uterine Fibroids. At-Risk Pre-Fibroid
Myometrium Showed Enhanced Inflammatory Signaling Which is
Alleviated by Vitamin D3 or Green Tea Extract Using 3D Organoid
Model. Mohamed Ali†, Mervat Omran, Somayeh Vafaei, Maria Bariani,
Marta Włodarczyk, Qiwei Yang, Ayman Al-Hendy. University of Chicago,
Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Uterine fibroids (UFs) are the most common benign tumors
in reproductive-age women. Deeper insights regarding tumor etiology
are the key to developing newer long-term non-invasive preventive
therapies. We aim to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying
UF development and explore the potential utility of simple preventive
strategies to delay, or even arrest, UF occurrence.
Methods: Stem cells (SCs) isolated from at-risk, adjacent to UFs,
myometrium (MyoF) or normal healthy myometrium (MyoN) tissues
were used to develop 3D organoids. RNA-seq was done to comparatively
profile organoids’ transcriptomes. Organoids and tissues were stained
for inflammatory markers TNF-α and NF-kB (p65) by IHC. Organoids
secretome was analyzed for a 48-cytokine array using multiplex ELISA.
Gene expression of proinflammatory markers IL-6 and IL-8 was measured
in MyoF vs. MyoN organoids and tissues using qRT-PCR. MyoF and
MyoN tissues were stained for neutrophils marker cd66b (n=10 each).
MyoF SCs were treated with VitaminD3 (VitD3 10-1000nM) or green tea
extract (EGCG 50-200μM) for 48 and 72hr, cell viability was measured
using MTT assay. MyoF organoids were treated with the VitD3 100nM
or EGCG 100 μM, and ELISA was used to measure cytokines secretion .
Results: RNA-seq analysis showed that 653 genes (360 up, 293 down)
were differentially expressed in MyoF vs. MyoN organoids (padj<0.05,
log fold change >1), Gene set enrichment analysis showed enhanced
inflammatory signaling in MyoF, compared to MyoN, organoids using
DisGeNET (top enriched, adjp=0.0001, gene ratio 41/449). Moreover,
MyoF organoids secreted higher levels of several cytokines including
IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, INF-γ, IL-13, IL-15, IL-22 than MyoN organoids
(p<0.05) and showed higher gene expression of IL-6 and IL-8 (p<0.05),
compared to MyoN, using qRT-PCR. Interestingly, MyoF organoids/
tissues showed higher protein expression of TNF-α, and NF-kB (p65),
while MyoF tissues showed higher cd66b expression, as compared to
MyoN organoids and tissues, respectively using IHC (p<0.05). MyoF SCs
showed a higher proliferation rate compared to MyoN SCs. Treating MyoF
SCs with VitD3 or EGCG showed both concentration- and time- dependent
growth inhibition and decreased gene expression of TNF-α as compared
to untreated MyoF SCs (p<0.05). MyoF organoids treated with VitD3
or EGCG showed significant reduction of several pro-inflammatory and
angiogenic cytokine ssecretions including IL-6, IL-8, TNF- α, PDGF-A
and VEGF-A compared to untreated control (p<0.05).
174A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Conclusion: At-risk myometrium showed enhanced inflammatory
microenvironment and neutrophil infiltration as compared to healthy
myometrium, which may lead to UF development. VitD3 or EGCG
showed anti-inflammatory effects on MyoF organoids.
F-045
An Autocrine Role for Complement Factor C1s in Uterine Leiomyomas.
Alexandra Saffa†,1 Xiaofang Guo,1 Rodrigo Rosado,1 Kosha Upadhyaya,1
Yuqian Tian,1 Raya Siddique,1 Santoshi Gondhi,1 Begum Aydogan Mathyk,1
Brittney Borresen,2 Russell Schoeller,2 Thomas Rutherford,2 Matthew
Anderson∗.1 1College of Medicine, Tampa, FL, United States; 2Tampa
General Hospital Cancer Institute, Tampa, FL, United States.
Introduction: Complement-driven signaling pathways have been
recently shown to exert a myriad of pro-tumoral effects by modulating the
immune microenvironment (ME). Uterine leiomyomas are benign smooth
muscle tumors found in 80% of reproductive-aged women. Despite their
inflammatory nature, the role of complement and other immune mediators
in leiomyomas remains largely unexplored.
Methods: After obtaining IRB permission, total RNA and protein were
prepared from matched, flash-frozen specimens of healthy myometrium
(UM) and leiomyomas (UL). Semi-quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR),
Western blot (WB) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)
were used to evaluate C1s expression. In vitro, C1s expression was targeted
using transcript-specific siRNAs. Chromogenic substrates (Creative-
Biolabs) were used to assess C1s esterolytic activity. Proliferation was
measured by a colorimetric-based assay (Promega). Flow cytometry
was used to evaluate cell cycle progression. Statistical significance was
assessed by two tailed Student’s t-test assuming normal data distribution.
Results: We found that leiomyomas were characterized by increased C1s
expression levels when matched specimens of UL and UM were compared
by ELISA, despite reduced expression of C1s mRNA measured by qPCR
(n=12, p=0.001). Significant C1s overexpression was also observed in
primary leiomyoma cultures by qPCR and WB, accompanied by higher
levels of C1s in the media bathing these cultures (n=4, p=0.004). In vitro,
targeting C1s expression dramatically reduced ambient C1s esterolytic
activity in ambient media, decreased proliferation, and resulted in a greater
proportion of myocytes in G1 cell cycle phase (n=7, p= 0.0001) when
compared to cultures transfected with non-targeting scrambled control.
Incubation with recombinant C1s (rC1s) promoted proliferation in UL
cultures in a dose and time dependent fashion, increased the proportion
of cells in S phase of the cell cycle (n=4, p= 0.0005) and decreased the
proportion of cells in G1 (n=4, p= 0.005). Exposure to recombinant C1s
resulted in robust phosphorylation of Akt1 and increased expression
of Cyclin D1. In contrast, C1s knockdown markedly decreased Akt1
phosphorylation and Cyclin D1 expression.
Conclusion: Actively growing uterine myocytes secrete C1s to promote
growth in an autocrine manner. These novel observations broaden
complement’s archetypal role in tumorigenesis, suggesting that a noncanonical
proteolytic network in the microenvironment of leiomyomas
plays a critical role in promoting their growth. Further work is necessary
to determine how C1s-regulated proteolytic pathways promote myometrial
tumorigenesis
F-046
Exploring MCT1 and LDHB-Mediated Glycolysis in Uterine Fibroids:
A Potential Therapeutic Approach Massar Alsamraae. University of
Chicago, Knapp Center for Biomedical Discovery (KCBD), Chicago,
IL, United States.
Introduction: Uterine fibroids (UF), or leiomyoma, are the most common
benign tumors in women of reproductive age, often causing significant
morbidity, including infertility, recurrent pregnancy loss, heavy menstrual
bleeding, and pelvic pain. The incidence of fibroids is estimated to reach
70% in white women and over 80% in Black women by age 50. Despite
their prevalence, the pathogenesis of fibroids remains poorly understood,
and treatment options are limited. This research suggests that UF may
rely on glycolysis to meet their ATP demands, facilitated by MCT1
and LDHB. MCT1 enables lactate transport across the cell membrane,
promoting glycolysis and lactate export, while LDHB converts lactate
to pyruvate, fueling oxidative metabolism, which may contribute to cell
proliferation and metastasis. Together, these genes regulate glycolysis
and lactate metabolism, making them key targets for disrupting cell
metabolism, particularly in metastatic lung cancer. Furthermore, this
research provides novel insights into fibroid metabolic reprogramming,
identifying potential therapeutic strategies by targeting these metabolic
pathways to modulate fibroid growth.
Methods: Whole-genome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed
on fibroid and normal myometrial tissues (n=6) from self-identified Black
women to determine global gene expression profiles and conduct enriched
pathway analyses. Validation was performed using immunohistochemistry
(IHC), staining for both MCT1 and LDHB in both patients’ tissues and
stem cell-derived 3D organoids
Results: In our lab’s global genomic expression profiles, we found that
the glycolysis pathway is significantly upregulated in fibroid tissue from
Black women compared to healthy myometrium from control subjects
without fibroids. This data suggests that aerobic glycolysis plays a key role
in fibroid pathogenesis. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis revealed
significantly higher MCT1 (Monocarboxylate Transporter 1) expression,
a key transporter for lactate movement across cell membranes, in uterine
fibroid tissue compared to myometrium (P<0.05). Additionally, we
observed significantly lower expression of LDHB (Lactate Dehydrogenase
B) (P<0.05), which is typically associated with tissues that rely on
oxidative metabolism. This suggests that fibroid tissue may be undergoing
anaerobic glycolysis, with increased lactate uptake or export and a reduced
ability to convert lactate back into pyruvate for oxidative phosphorylation.
Conclusion: The data from this research suggests that fibroid tissue
is less reliant on the TCA cycle and oxidative metabolism and may
instead favor lactate accumulation and glycolysis for energy production.
Additionally, this research suggests that targeting lactate transporters
such as MCT1 could offer novel, non-invasive therapeutic approaches
for fibroid treatment
F-047
Urinary Biomarker Concentrations of Phthalates and Phthalate
Alternatives and Female Sexual Function in a North American
Preconception Cohort. Samantha Schildroth†,1 Julia Bond†,1 Amelia
K Wesselink,1 Martha R Koenig,1 Jasmine Abrams,2 Lauren A Wise∗.1
1Boston University, Boston, MA, United States; 2Yale University, New
Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Phthalates are endocrine-disrupting chemicals that can
dysregulate hormonal systems supporting female sexual function (e.g.,
estrogen interference). Female sexual function is important for positive
sexual expression, fertility, and well-being, but remains understudied in
the context of environmental toxicants to which females are ubiquitously
exposed, including phthalates.
Methods: We leveraged cross-sectional preconception data from
Pregnancy Study Online (PRESTO, n=347) to assess associations between
phthalate exposure and sexual function, measured on the Female Sexual
Function Index-6 (FSFI-6). We summed FSFI-6 responses (range=2-30);
lower scores reflected poorer function. We measured 16 phthalate
or alternative metabolites in urine samples using online solid phase
extraction coupled with high-performance liquid chromatography isotope
dilution tandem mass spectrometry and creatinine-adjusted metabolite
concentrations. Given that phthalate metabolites were non-linearly
associated with FSFI-6 scores, we categorized metabolite concentrations
in tertiles. We used multivariable linear regression to estimate mean
differences (β) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) in FSFI-6 scores
per tertile increase in metabolite concentrations, adjusting for potential
confounders. In secondary analyses, we considered individual FSFI-6
items (interest, arousal, lubrication, orgasm, sex life satisfaction, and
pain; range=1-5) as outcome variables.
Results: Most phthalate metabolites were not associated with FSFI-6
scores. Mono-n-butyl phthalate concentrations were weakly and nonmonotonically
associated with lower summed FSFI-6 scores (β=-0.8,
95% CI=-1.8, 0.2) and orgasm scores (β=-0.3, 95% CI=-0.7, 0.1) at the
2nd (vs. 1st) tertile, reflecting poorer sexual function. Mono-2-ethyl-5-
carboxypentyl terephthalate concentrations were modestly associated
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 175A
Friday Posters
with poorer scores for orgasm, while other phthalate metabolites (notably,
mono-carboxyisononyl phthalate) were associated with higher summed
FSFI-6 and FSFI-6 item scores.
Conclusion: Some phthalate metabolites were weakly associated with
female sexual function. However, the direction of association varied
by metabolite, and most associations were non-monotonic, such that
associations were attenuated at the 3rd tertile.
F-048
Use of Continuous Glucose Monitors in Pregnant People with Type 2
Diabetes: A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis. Allyson M Drury†, David M
Monroe, Ava D Mandelbaum, Michaela Rickert, Amy M Valent, Aaron
B Caughey. Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, United
States.
Introduction: Type 2 diabetes (T2D) in pregnancy has been associated
with adverse maternal and neonatal outcomes. Optimizing glycemic
control during pregnancy is essential to minimize such complications.
Over the last decade, there has been increasing literature on the utility of
continuous glucose monitors (CGM) in diabetes management, and studies
indicate that it improves outcomes in pregnant people with type 1 diabetes.
This study aimed to evaluate the outcomes and cost-effectiveness of using
CGM in pregnant people with T2D.
Methods: A decision-analytic model was built using TreeAge software
to compare outcomes and cost-effectiveness of CGM versus standard
self-monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) in a theoretical cohort of
33,000 pregnant people with type 2 diabetes. The threshold for costeffectiveness
was set at $100,000 per quality adjusted life year (QALY).
Outcomes included preeclampsia, preterm birth, neonatal hypoglycemia,
neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, NICU admission, neonatal death, and
neurodevelopmental disability (NDD). Probabilities, costs, and utilities
were derived from literature.
Results: In our theoretical cohort, the CGM intervention led to 3,683 fewer
cases of preeclampsia, 4,872 fewer preterm births, 1,236 fewer cases of
neonatal hypoglycemia, 3,940 fewer cases of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia,
4,328 fewer NICU admissions, and 41 fewer neonatal deaths relative
to SMBG (Table 1). CGM was cost-effective and a dominant strategy,
reducing costs by $67,960,862 and increasing QALYs by 1,311 compared
to SMBG.
Conclusion: The use of CGM in pregnant people with T2D resulted in
improved perinatal outcomes, decreased costs, and increased quality of
life. These findings may help inform management strategies and support
insurance coverage of CGM, leading to better health outcomes for
pregnant people with type 2 diabetes and their newborns.
F-049
Effectiveness of Late Preterm Corticosteroids on Neonatal Outcomes
at a Tertiary Care Center. Avery Smith†,1 Stephanie Rodriguez†,2 Jamie
Blue†,2 Nicole Sprawka∗,2 Layan Alrahmani∗,2 Joana Perdigao∗,2 Ann
Lal∗.2 1Loyola University Chicago, Stritch School of Medicine, Maywood,
IL, United States; 2Loyola University Medical Center, Maywood, IL, United
States.
Introduction: This study aims to assess the impact of late preterm
corticosteroids on neonatal outcomes in neonates who delivered between
34w0d and 36w6d at an urban, tertiary care center.
Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study of patients with singleton
pregnancies who delivered from 34w0d to 36w6d at a single care center
from 2019-2023. All patients who delivered in the late preterm period
were assessed for eligibility. Inclusion criteria were delivery at the
institution, delivery between 34w0d and 36w6d, singleton pregnancy,
and candidacy for corticosteroids (as assessed by the primary obstetrics
team). Exclusion criteria included delivery at an outside institution and
patients who received corticosteroids and delivered at term. The primary
outcome was to compare the composite of neonatal intensive care unit
(NICU) admissions, hypoglycemia, respiratory distress syndrome (RDS),
and mechanical ventilation, between pregnant patients who received
corticosteroids and pregnant patients who did not.
Results: 227 patients were included. 59% (n=134) received at least
one dose of corticosteroid. 41% (n=193) declined or were not offered
steroids. There was no difference in baseline demographic data between
the groups. Of the 134 patients who received corticosteroids, 56% (n=75)
completed the course of betamethasone before delivery. 72% (n=97) of
patients delivered during the same admission in which they received
betamethasone. The average duration from the first corticosteroid
dose to delivery was 7.8 ± 16.63 days. There was no difference in
NICU admissions, hypoglycemia, RDS, necrotizing enterocolitis, or
intraventricular hemorrhage between the groups.
Conclusion: In this study, late preterm corticosteroids did not impact
rates of NICU admission, RDS, mechanical ventilation, or hypoglycemia
in neonates who delivered from 34w0d to 36w6d. Further studies are
needed to evaluate the impact of late preterm corticosteroids on neonatal
outcomes to guide clinical practice more effectively.
F-050
Obstructive Uropathy in Labor. Kedeja Williams. Johns Hopkins
Hospital, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: To determine if ureteral obstruction (UO) with acute kidney
injury (AKI) is associated with increased risk of Cesarean delivery (CD)
and suspicion of cephalopelvic disproportion (CPD).
Methods: Using an institutional database of all parturients between
2017 and 2023, we identified those with peripartum acute kidney injury
(AKI) based on ICD-9 coding. We then performed a manual chart review
to identify cases with likely ureteral obstructive uropathy (UO) based
on the following criteria: abrupt-onset oliguria or anuria during labor
unresponsive to fluids, elevated serum creatine, non-distended bladder,
and post-obstructive diuresis immediately following delivery. Patients
were excluded if an alternative explanation for AKI was present. Cases
were matched 4:1 by propensity score matching using maternal age, race,
ethnicity, gestational age, BMI, insurance status, parity, hypertension
on presentation and hospital of delivery. Standardized mean difference
< 0.3 was considered adequate matching. Data abstracted included:
demographic variables, induction vs. spontaneous labor, mode of delivery
and suspicion of CPD based on clinical documentation or CD after more
than 3 hours of the second stage.
Results: In our database of 22,785 parturients, we identified 15 cases of
suspected UO. The maternal age of the cases ranged from 20-38 years
old with a median age of 29 years. Gestational age ranged from 37-41
weeks with a median of 39 weeks. 8/15 (53%) of the cases identified as
African-American. The BMI ranged from 25-66 with a median of 34.
13/15 (87%) of the cases were nulliparous, and 11/15 (73%) underwent
induction of labor. The birthweights ranged from 2790-4310 g with a
mean weight of 3408 g. See Table 1 for results.
Conclusion: Ureteral obstructive uropathy was significantly associated
with increased CD. In addition, suspicion of CPD was more likely to
occur in patients with UO, suggesting that UO may be a marker for CPD.
F-052
Neonatal Outcomes in Pregnancies with Net Gestational Weight Gain
versus Net Gestational Weight Loss. Sarah H Abelman†, Frank I Jackson,
Nathan A Keller, Luis A Bracero, Matthew J Blitz. Northwell, New Hyde
Park, NY, United States.
Introduction: Though weight loss during pregnancy is not recommended
regardless of pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI), little is known about
the specific adverse effects of gestational weight loss. This study aims to
assess neonatal outcomes in pregnancies complicated by net gestational
weight loss compared to appropriate net gestational weight gain.
Methods: This was a retrospective cohort study of pregnancies within
a large health care system in New York from 2019-2023. The primary
outcomes were preterm birth (PTB), small for gestational age (SGA),
NICU admission, and neonatal acidosis. Net gestational weight gain or
net gestational weight loss were based on maternal delivery weight and
pre-pregnancy weight. Patients were excluded if they had excessive or
inadequate gestational weight gain based on the Institute of Medicine
recommendations for weight gain in pregnancy. PTB was defined as
delivery < 37 weeks of gestation, SGA as birthweight < 10th percentile,
and neonatal acidosis as umbilical artery pH < 7.0. BMI was based on
pre-pregnancy weight and was classified as: non-obese (< 30 kg/m2),
176A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
class 1 obesity (30.0 to < 35.0 kg/m2), class 2 obesity (35.0 to < 40.0 kg/
m2), and class 3 obesity ( > 40.0 kg/m2). Multivariable logistic regression
was used to estimate the strength of association between net gestational
weight gain or loss and PTB, SGA, NICU admission, and neonatal acidosis
adjusting for BMI class, advanced maternal age, race and ethnicity,
preexisting diabetes, and chronic hypertension. All statistical analyses
were performed in R 4.3.1.
Results: In total, there were 66,628 pregnancies with 64,948 (97.5%)
with appropriate net weight gain and 1,680 (2.5%) with net weight loss.
Pregnancies with net weight loss were statistically more likely to have
preterm birth and SGA infants, aOR [95% CI]: 1.33 [1.16-1.53] and
1.38 [1.03-1.81], respectively. There were no significant differences in
the rates of NICU admission and neonatal acidosis between pregnancies
with net gestational weight gain or loss. Compared to Non-Hispanic
White patients, all other race and ethnicity groups were more likely to
experience preterm birth.
Conclusion: Pregnancies with net weight loss were more likely to
experience PTB and result in SGA infants than those with net weight
gain while rates of NICU admission and neonatal acidosis did not differ
between groups.
F-053
Health Disparities in Genetic Testing: An Evaluation of Reproductive
Carrier Screening in the United States. Sheetal Parmar,1 Vivienne
Souter,1 Jessica Saben,1 Madeleine Armer-Cabral,1 Emily Becraft,1 Asha N.
Talati,2 Brittany Prigmore,1 Yang Wang,1 Genevieve Neal-Perry.2 1Natera,
Inc., Austin, TX, United States; 2University of North Carolina School of
Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.
Introduction: Reproductive carrier screening (CS) is one of the most
widely used genetic testing strategies in the US. With a history of raceand
ethnicity-based testing, inequities in reproductive CS have endured
even as the US population is increasingly multiracial. While pan-ethnic,
large-panel CS can combat these disparities, a lack of universal guidance
for large-panel CS use has likely delayed progress toward equitable genetic
testing. Our objective was to compare use of large-panel CS among a
racially and geographically diverse reproductive age, US population.
Methods: This was a retrospective study of genetic and sociodemographic
data from female patients (18 - 45 years) who had CS ordered by an
obstetric or genetics provider (01/2020 - 09/2022) and analyzed at a
commercial laboratory. Orders from fertility clinics were excluded. We
evaluated CS panel size (large-panel CS: 15-274 genes; small-panel CS: ≤
14 genes), positive carrier rates among different racial and ethnic groups,
and socioeconomic status (based on distressed communities index [DCI]).
Adjusted risk ratios (ARR) of having large-panel CS for variables of
interest were calculated from Poisson generalized linear models. Missing
data were included in the analyses as a separate group (Not available).
Results: Of 726,665 patients, 14.7% underwent large-panel CS. Race
and ethnicity were White (28.3%), Hispanic (18.0%), Black (12.5%),
Other (4.8%), Asian (3.5%), Multiracial (2.0%), and Ashkenazi Jewish
(0.3%). Thirty percent of the cohort had missing race and ethnicity.
After adjusting for DCI, age, test year, and pregnancy status, Black
and Hispanic patients had a lower likelihood to receive large-panel CS
compared to White (ARR: 0.71 [95%CI: 0.70 - 0.73] and 0.67 [95%CI:
0.66 - 0.69], respectively, p<0.001). Compared to the most prosperous
communities, patients in distressed communities had a lower likelihood
of receiving large-panel CS, after adjusting for race/ethnicity, age, test
year, and pregnancy status (ARR: 0.72 [95%CI: 0.71 - 0.74]). Carrier rates
significantly differed between all race and ethnicity groups for large and
small panels, respectively: 68.7% and 17.9% Ashkenazi Jewish, 46.9%
and 9.4% Asian, 36.1% and 15.3% Black, 34.5% and 8.5% Hispanic,
45.6% and 11.7% White, 51.6% and 11.2% Multiracial, 41.3% and 10.8%
Other, and 45.2% and 11.2% Not available.
Conclusion: Our data suggests widespread inequities in receiving largepanel
CS in the US. While carriers were less likely to be identified in
Black and Hispanic patients, positivity rates increased with panel size,
demonstrating the greatest potential for risk reduction (i.e. identifying a
carrier) with the largest panels.
F-054
Extended Postpartum Follow-Up for Vermont Publicly Insured
Patients with Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy. Isha Vasudeva†,1
Sarah Chiavacci†,2 Ira Bernstein∗.1 1University of Vermont Medical Center,
Burlington, VT, United States; 2University of Vermont School of Medicine,
Burlington, VT, United States.
Introduction: In August 2023, Vermont state Medicaid extended
postpartum eligibility to one year from the prior 60 day limit. Patients who
experienced hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) are recommended
to undergo late postpartum cardiovascular assessment and preventive
counseling. Our study aimed to evaluate whether rates of postpartum
follow-up over seven months for patients who suffered from HDP changed
after this state-wide public insurance expansion.
Methods: We performed a nonconcurrent retrospective cohort study which
included patients who delivered at University of Vermont Medical Center
between August - December 2022 and August - December 2023 with
Medicaid insurance and a diagnosis of HDP. The primary outcome was
the percentage of patients who attended at least one obstetric or primary
care visit, including tele-health visits, in the seven months following
delivery. Secondary outcomes included the percentage of patients who
attended primary care follow-up, in addition to routine postpartum care,
as well as if there was documentation of discussion of HDP and future
cardiovascular risk at primary care visits attended.
Results: 162 total patients: 80 between August - December 2022 and 82
between August - December 2023. There was no difference in percentage
of patients who attended at least one visit in the seven months postpartum
between 2022 and 2023 (75.0% vs 64.6%, p=0.15) or who attended at
least one primary care visit within seven months (27.5% vs 23.2 %,
p=0.35). Of the patients who did attend primary care follow up, there
was no significant difference in rates of documented discussion of HDP
(41% vs 26%, p=0.07).
Conclusion: Medicaid eligibility expansion in the state of Vermont is
not associated with a change in attendance of obstetric and primary care
visits in the seven months postpartum for patients affected by HDP. Thus,
further efforts in addition to this health policy change are necessary to
improve postpartum access to care, particularly in at-risk populations.
F-055
The Role of Labor: Impact of Delivery Method on Initiation of
Breastfeeding during Delivery Hospitalization. Hannah Cunningham†,
Jennifer Culhane, Lisbet Lundsberg, Caitlin Partridge, Audrey Merriam.
Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Breastfeeding has health benefits for infants and birthing
parents. Mode of delivery may impact rates of breastfeeding initiation.
Therefore, it is essential to understand the association between mode of
delivery and breastfeeding initiation to adequately support patients in their
breastfeeding desires. This study compares breastfeeding initiation rates
during delivery admission across patients with vaginal delivery, planned
cesarean or intrapartum cesarean.
Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study including all singleton,
term, non-NICU admission births from a single multihospital system
from January 1st, 2015-2023. Data were extracted from electronic
health records. The primary outcome was infant feeding method during
delivery hospitalization categorized as exclusive breastfeeding (BF),
exclusive formula feeding (FF), or combination feeding (CF). Infant
feeding practices were compared across three delivery types: vaginal
delivery, planned cesarean, and intrapartum cesarean. Bivariate analyses
were performed to assess the association between maternal age, BMI,
insurance, language, marital status, parity, race/ethnicity, smoking,
chronic hypertension (cHTN), hypertensive disorder of pregnancy (HDP),
pregestational diabetes, gestational diabetes (GDM) average feedings per
day, minutes to first feed, lactation consultation and feeding type, using
chi-square or ANOVA as appropriate. Covariates achieving p<0.05 in
bivariate analysis were included in model adjustment. Unadjusted and
adjusted multinomial logistic regression models were conducted with
exclusive FF as referent group.
Results: Among 70,227 deliveries, 28,106 (40%) BF, 8,429 (12%) FF, and
33,692 (48%) CF. In bivariate tests, every maternal attribute and clinical
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 177A
Friday Posters
risk factor were significantly different across feeding types. Maternal
BMI >30, public insurance, non-English speaking, single status, smoking,
cHTN, HDP, pregestational diabetes and GDM were all lowest in the
BF group. For example, rates of public insurance were 55.9%, 24.7%,
38.9% for FF, BF, and CF respectively. In multinomial regression, after
adjusting for all covariates, patients delivering vaginally compared to
those with planned cesarean were 2.44 (CI: 2.28-2.61) times more likely
to BF. Those patients undergoing intrapartum cesarean, compared to
planned cesarean, were 1.29 times more likely to CF than to FF (aOR
1.29, 95% [CI]: 1.17-1.43).
Conclusion: Patients undergoing a scheduled cesarean are less likely
to exclusively breastfeed during their delivery hospitalization when
compared to those undergoing vaginal delivery. Whereas those who
undergo an intrapartum cesarean are more likely to combination feed their
infant when compared to those who underwent a scheduled cesarean. More
work needs to be done to provide breastfeeding support to individuals,
regardless of delivery method.
F-056
Redefining Postpartum Hemorrhage Risk by Need for Urgent Blood
Transfusions. Derek Lee†,1 Sarah Duggan,1 Elizabeth Pinchman,2 Devneet
Singh,1 Craig Zelig∗.1 1Albany Medical Center, Albany, NY, United States;
2St. Francis Hospital, Hartford, CT, United States.
Introduction: Maternal health organizations such as AWHONN and
CMQCC have developed risk assessment tools to help predict postpartum
hemorrhage (PPH). These prediction tools all recommend type and
crossmatch on admission or in labor for high risk patients. The objective of
this study is to assess the performance of risk factors in these postpartum
hemorrhage risk assessment tools for predicting the need for urgent blood
transfusions instead of the commonly used definition of four units of
packed red blood cells (pRBCs) as a surrogate for potentially life-saving
transfusions. Urgent blood transfusion is defined as blood transfusion
during labor or within 2 hours of recognition of hemorrhage.
Methods: This was a retrospective case-control study of gravid patients
who delivered at 23 weeks gestation or above at a tertiary care center
from January 1, 2022 to July 30, 2023. Cases are identified as patients
meeting criteria for urgent blood transfusion during the intrapartum and
postpartum periods. Controls are identified as patients without any blood
products during admission. Controls are matched to cases for mode of
delivery (vaginal vs. Cesarean), parity (nulliparous vs. multiparous),
and number of gestation (singleton vs. twin) at a 5 to 1 ratio. Based on
the risk assessment tool, each patient was rated as low, medium, or high
hemorrhage risk.
Results: 30 cases and 150 controls were included. 80% of identified
patients were singleton, and 20% were twin gestations. 60% of patients
delivered by Cesarean section, and 40% of patients were nulliparous.
Estimated blood loss was significantly higher in cases compared to
controls (2,313.8±343.4 mL vs. 606.9±52.8 mL, p<0.001). Cases received
mean 1.8±0.2 units of pRBC and 0.4±0.3 units of fresh frozen plasma.
53.3% of cases and 42.0% of controls were rated as high hemorrhage risk.
In predicting the need for urgent transfusion by high hemorrhage risk
rating, the AWOHNN tool had a sensitivity of 53.3%, specificity of 58.0%,
PPV of 20.3%, and NPV of 86.1%. The CMQCC tool had a sensitivity of
56.7%, specificity of 58.0%, PPV of 21.3%, and NPV of 87.0%.
Conclusion: The AWHONN and CMQCC postpartum hemorrhage risk
assessment tools have high negative predictive value but low sensitivity,
specificity, and positive predictive value for urgent blood transfusions.
F-057
Newborn Hospitalization Outcomes, Costs and Length of Stay
Associated with Meconium Aspiration Syndrome. Stacia Hickey†,
Alyssa Hersh, Bharti Garg, Ava Mandelbaum, Meredith Haag, Aaron B
Caughey∗. Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, United
States.
Introduction: Newborns with meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS)
need intensive neonatal care due to higher complication risks, with limited
studies on the financial burden. This study compares clinical outcomes,
lengths of stay (LOS), and hospitalization costs between newborns with
and without MAS.
Methods: This retrospective cohort study analyzed singleton, nonanomalous,
term (37-42 weeks’ gestation) live births in California between
2016-2020. We assessed hospitalization costs (adjusted to 2024 USD) and
LOS for newborns with MAS compared to those without MAS. We used
chi-square tests and multivariable Poisson regression models for adverse
neonatal outcomes and incidence rate ratios (IRR) were estimated. For
neonatal costs, Wilcoxon rank sum tests and generalized linear regression
models with gamma distribution and identity link function was used and
mean cost difference (MCD) with 95% CI were estimated. For LOS,
Wilcoxon rank sum tests and negative binomial regression was used and
adjusted risk ratio (aRR) were estimated.
Results: The study included 1,559,856 newborns, of which 3,367 (0.22%)
were diagnosed with MAS. Newborns with MAS had significantly higher
rates of adverse outcomes, including hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy
(3.86% vs. 0.07%; IRR 42.54, 95% CI 35.36-51.18), neonatal death
(0.68% vs. 0.03%; IRR 20.12, 95% CI 13.10-30.92), and infant death
(0.80% vs. 0.09%; IRR 8.49, 95% CI 5.76-12.50) compared to those
without MAS. The mean and median hospital costs for newborns with
MAS was significantly higher at $24,307 and $13,859, respectively,
compared to $3,187 and $1,414 for those without MAS, with adjusted
MCD of $20,990 (95% CI $19,732-$22,249). Further, the mean and
median length of hospital stay for newborns with MAS was significantly
longer, at 5.20 days and 4 days, respectively, compared to 2.07 days and
2 days for those without MAS, with higher risk ratio for LOS in neonates
with MAS (aRR=2.42, 95% CI 2.32-2.52).
Conclusion: Newborns with MAS have a significantly higher chance
of adverse outcomes, experience longer hospital stays, and incur higher
hospitalization costs. Further research on preventing MAS could reduce
morbidity, mortality and associated costs.
F-058
Intersectional Associations of Neighborhood-Level Social Determinants
of Health with Primary Cesarean Delivery. Jameaka Hamilton†,1 William
Grobman,2 Wu Jiqiang,1 Lynn Lee,3 David Haas,1 Rebecca McNeil,4 Brian
Mercer,5 Hyagriv Simhan,6 Uma Reddy,7 Robert Silver,8 Samuel Parry,9
George Saade,10 Jun Wu,11 Courtney Lynch,1 Kartik Venkatesh∗.1 1The
Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, United States; 2Brown University,
Providence, RI, United States; 3Northwestern University, Chicago, IL,
United States; 4RTI International, Durham, NC, United States; 5Case
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, United States; 6University
of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, United States; 7Columbia University, New
York, NY, United States; 8University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, United
States; 9University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States;
10Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, VA, United States; 11University
of California, Irvine, CA, United States.
Introduction: Although the individual impact of adverse neighborhoodlevel
social determinants of health (nSDOH) on pregnancy outcomes has
been examined, the impact of multiple nSDOH is not well described.
We investigated the association of intersectional nSDOH measures with
primary cesarean delivery (PCD) among nulliparas.
Methods: A secondary analysis of the prospective nuMoM2b
observational cohort. Home addresses in the first trimester were geocoded
at the census-tract level to define three adverse nSDOH measures: 1) high
socioeconomic disadvantage by the Area Deprivation Index (ADI, in
tertiles), 2) inadequate food access by the USDA Food Access Research
178A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Atlas, and 3) low walkability by the EPA National Walkability Score. We
categorized nSDOH measures by their intersection with one another and
evaluated the association of these categories with PCD.
Results: Among 9,071 nulliparas, the mean ADI was 45.1, 24.5% lived
in a neighborhood with low food access, and 66.4% with low walkability.
In multivariable analyses, the risk of PCD was higher among individuals
living in neighborhoods with low walkability (aRR: 1.12; 95% CI 1.03-
1.21), but there was no association with inadequate food access or high
ADI (TABLE). When evaluating intersectional categories, those exposed
to two compared with no adverse nSDOH measures (aRR: 1.16; 95% CI
1.05-1.29) had a higher risk of PCD, although those who were exposed
to any one or all three did not differ in their risk of PCD (TABLE). When
further evaluating specific nSDOH combinations, individuals living in
neighborhoods with low walkability and high ADI (aRR: 1.20; 95%: CI
1.05-1.37) or low walkability and inadequate food access (aRR: 1.14;
95% CI 1.02-1.28) had a higher risk of PCD.
Conclusion: In a US cohort of nulliparas, low walkability (alone and
in combination with other nSDOH) was associated with modestly
increased risk of PCD. Further research is needed to better understand
how intersectionality of multiple nSDOH factors contributes to obstetric
outcomes.
F-059
Cervical Ripening: Effect of Obesity. Lauren M Silva†, Cynthia Garvan∗,
Adetola Louis-Jacques∗, Rodney K Edwards∗. University of Florida,
Gainesville, FL, United States.
Introduction: Obese patients have lower rates of spontaneous labor than
nonobese patients. We hypothesized that obese patients also are more
likely, corrected for gestational age, to have an unfavorable cervical exam
at the time of labor induction.
Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study including 1,591 nulliparous
patients that underwent induction of labor at a single academic institution
between June 2018 and December 2022. Individual patient medical record
review was undertaken. Maternal body mass indices (BMI), gestational
ages, and cervical examinations at the time of admission were extracted
from the electronic medical record. A simplified Bishop score was
calculated for each patient. Separate regression models were constructed
for cervical dilation, cervical effacement, and simplified Bishop scores
with delivery BMI as the focus variable and gestational age as a control
variable. SAS software 9.4 (Cary, NC) was used for all analyses with the
level of significance set at .05.
Results: Cervical dilation, cervical effacement, and simplified Bishop
scores were inversely related to BMI at the time of admission (p <0.0001
for all). For the BMI <30, 30<35, 35<40, and 40 or more BMI groups,
respectively, median [IQR] cervical dilation was 1 [1,2], 1[1,2], 1 [0,1],
and 1 [0,1], cervical effacement was 50 [50,70], 50 [20,60], 50 [0,50], and
50 [0,50], and simplified Bishop score was 2 [1,3], 2 [1,3], 2 [1,3], and
1 [0,2]. This relationship remained significant (p<0.0001 for all) when
adjusted for gestational age.
Conclusion: We demonstrate here that, adjusted for gestational age,
obesity is inversely related to cervical favorability. We speculate that
delay of otherwise indicated labor induction in obese patients in order to
await cervical favorability likely is an unsuccessful strategy.
F-060
Comparative Analysis of Severe Maternal Morbidity in Peripartum
Hysterectomy: Placenta Accreta Spectrum versus Other Indications.
Fiona LaRoc, Kristin Hinsen, Holly Kastendieck, Madhurima Keerthy,
Trammel Cox, Paula Delgado, Trevor Quiner. University of New Mexico
School of Medicine, Albuquerque, NM, United States.
Introduction: Peripartum hysterectomy, a critical intervention for severe
obstetric complications, represents a significant indicator of severe
maternal morbidity (SMM). The aim of this study is to compare outcomes
of peripartum hysterectomy for placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) versus
other indications.
Methods: This retrospective cohort study analyzed 65 patients who
underwent peripartum hysterectomy from 2018 to 2024. Data on
demographics, clinical characteristics, and outcomes were collected and
analyzed. Primary outcomes included intensive care unit (ICU) stay,
estimated blood loss (EBL), transfusion and surgical injury to surrounding
structures. Statistical analyses included chi-square and t-tests, with a
significance level of p<0.05.
Results: Among the 65 cases, 37 involved PAS and 28 involved other
indications. Three cases were excluded due to lack of data. PAS-indicated
cases exhibited significantly lower EBL. Non-PAS cases had significantly
higher rates of ICU admission and transfusion. Composite morbidity,
excluding hemorrhage, was significantly higher in non-PAS cases, but
there was no significant difference when hemorrhage was included. There
was no significant difference in length of ICU stay or injury to surrounding
structures. Demographics such as age, race, or socioeconomic status were
not significantly different.
Conclusion: Peripartum hysterectomy for non-PAS indications was
associated with greater EBL, transfusion, and ICU admission when
compared to PAS-indicated cases. While peripartum hysterectomy alone
is an indicator of SMM, these findings suggest that operations for non-
PAS indications are associated with increased morbidity. Several factors
may account for this discrepancy, including underlying pathology as well
as the level of preparation and anticipation in PAS cases. These findings
underscore the importance of individualized counseling for non-PAS
indicated surgical patients, emphasizing the increased risks of blood loss,
transfusion, and associated morbidity.
F-061
Rates of Fetal Growth Restriction Using Sex-Neutral versus Sex-
Specific Standards and Association with Perinatal Morbidity. Savvy
Benipal†,1 Sara Post†,1 Arial Eastburn†,2 Julia Michels†,1 Vyshnavy
Balendra†,3 Nathan R Blue∗.1 1University of Utah Health, Salt Lake
City, UT, United States; 2University of San Francisco, San Francisco,
CA, United States; 3Saint James School of Medicine, Anguilla, Anguilla.
Introduction: Female fetuses are physiologically smaller than male
fetuses, but U.S. prenatal fetal growth curves are sex-neutral. We
hypothesized that sex-neutral growth curves would diagnose fetal growth
restriction (FGR) more frequently in female than male fetuses, and that
a sex-specific curve would resolve the disparity. We aimed to compare
the rate of FGR in female vs male fetuses using both sex-neutral and
sex-specific growth standards. Our secondary objective was to compare
each method’s test characteristics for prediction of composite perinatal
morbidity.
Methods: We performed a retrospective cohort study of diagnostic
accuracy. Singleton births with an ultrasound at/beyond 22 weeks at our
institution between May-September 2024 were included. We previously
published a sex-specific fetal growth standard using ultrasound and
birth data from a prospective observational cohort (nuMoM2b), which
we compared to the leading sex-neutral fetal growth chart in the U.S.
(Hadlock 1991). The primary outcome was the rate of prenatal FGR,
defined as estimated fetal weight (EFW) <10th percentile using the most
recent ultrasound before birth. For this analysis, abdominal circumference
<10th percentile was not used as a criterion for FGR because the sexspecific
curve was only developed for EFW. Secondary outcomes were
the overall rate of FGR and the test characteristics of sex-neutral versus
sex-specific FGR to predict composite neonatal morbidity (perinatal
death, NICU admission >7d, mechanical ventilation, hypoxic ischemic
encephalopathy, need for head-cooling, or transfer to a level IV NICU).
Results: 508 singleton pregnancies were included in this analysis, with
245 (48.2%) female and 263 (51.8%) male fetuses. 66 had composite
morbidity (13.0%), which was similar between fetal sexes (female 11.8%,
male 14.0%, p=0.5). The mean gestational age (GA) at delivery was 37.8
± 2.8 weeks and at last ultrasound was 33.4 weeks ± 3.6. The sex-neutral
curve diagnosed FGR more than twice as often in female vs male fetuses
(14.1% vs. 5.7%; RR 2.46, 1.4-4.4), whereas the sex-specific standard did
not (9.8% vs. 7.0%; RR 1.4, 0.79-1.1). When comparing sex-neutral with
sex-specific curves, test characteristics were similar: sensitivity, 20.0 vs
21.5%, p=0.56; specificity, 91.8 vs 93.4, p=0.05), area under the curve,
0.56 vs 0.57, p=0.35.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 179A
Friday Posters
Conclusion: In our cohort, the leading U.S. growth curve, which is sexneutral,
diagnosed FGR in female fetuses more than twice as often as in
male fetuses. A sex specific curve resolved this disparity while maintaining
similar test characteristics for prediction of composite perinatal morbidity.
F-062
Preterm Birth and Perception Of Control over Delivery. Dana Rose
Canfield†,1 Marni Jacobs,1 Emmanuel Elijah†,1 Karoline Guitierrez†,2
Minhazur Sarker†,1 Rachel Wiley†,1 Nicole Teal,1 Cynthia Gyamfi-
Bannerman∗.1 1University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, United
States; 2University of Miami, Miama, FL, United States.
Introduction: While several studies have examined the relationship
between patient factors and perceived control over birth, none have
examined differences in perceived control or labor agentry between
patients who deliver at term and those who deliver preterm. Our primary
aim was to study the association between preterm birth, defined as delivery
at less than 37 weeks gestational age (GA), and labor agentry, as measured
by the Labor Agentry Scale (LAS).
Methods: This a prospective cohort study in which we enrolled patients
from high-risk obstetric clinics at a single institution between 27 and 34
weeks’ gestation and administered surveys regarding overall physical and
mental health. At the time of delivery, these patients completed the LAS,
a validated 29-item questionnaire with Likert scale responses asking them
to reflect on how they felt during labor, with a higher score suggestive
of more perceived control and a possible range in scores from 7 to 203.
Our primary exposure was preterm birth, defined as birth at less than 37
weeks GA treated as a binary variable, and our primary outcome was LAS
as a continuous variable. We assessed baseline demographics between
exposure groups including age, race, ethnicity, body mass index (BMI),
preferred language, income, history of mental health diagnosis, and mode
of delivery and used a t-test to determine difference in mean LAS score
between exposure groups.
Results: 81 patients were included in the analysis with 18 (22.2%)
delivering preterm and 63 (77.8%) delivering term neonates. The mean
LAS for patients in our cohort is 164.3 with a range of 58-197. Patients
who delivered preterm did not differ significantly from those who
delivered at term in any of the baseline demographics. Mean LAS was
similar in the term, 165.16±25.02, and preterm groups, 161.39±19.45
(p = 0.589).
Conclusion: In our small cohort of patients, those who delivered preterm
had slightly lower labor agentry than those who delivered at term but
this difference was not statistically significant. More data are needed
to determine which specific factors are related to lower agentry among
patients delivering preterm and whether there are any that can be modified.
F-064
Neonatal Outcomes Following Betamethasone Administration in
Patients with Class III Obesity. Zimeng Gao, Alexsaundra Zywicki,
Madeline Babb, Sarah Caveglia, Carrie Irvine, Sarah Crimmins∗. University
of Rochester, Rochester, NY, United States.
Introduction: While the efficacy of antenatal betamethasone
administration has been well established, there is limited research on
its efficacy on neonatal outcomes specifically in the obese population.
We hope to expound on the research in this area, as premature deliveries
and maternal obesity are both high impact global public health issues.
Our objective is to investigate neonatal outcomes of premature neonates
following betamethasone administration in patients with class III obesity.
Methods: This is a retrospective case-control study of preterm deliveries
(gestational age 24w0d to 36w6d) during which the patient completed one
course of betamethasone. The control group included patients with BMIs
< 30 and the study group included BMIs ≥ 40. Exclusion criteria included
multiple gestations, type 1 diabetes mellitus, type 2 diabetes mellitus
with Hgb A1C > 7.0%, chorioamnionitis, non-reassuring fetal heart
tones requiring emergent delivery, fetal aneuploidy or major structural
anomalies, and neonatal abstinence syndrome. Chi-square tests were
performed to compare resuscitation needs by BMI status with adjustments
made for gestational age at delivery and birth weight.
Results: Of 241 total patients, 67% had BMIs < 30 (n=161) and 33%
had BMIs ≥ 40 (n=80). Demographic characteristics of the two cohorts
were similar, expect for insurance status. After adjusting for gestational
age at delivery and birth weight, we found that neonates born to patients
with class III obesity had significantly higher needs for resuscitation
with oxygen, PPV, and tracheal suctioning compared to neonates born to
patients with normal BMI. However, there were no statistical differences
in composite or individual neonatal outcomes for neonates born to nonobese
patients compared to neonates born to patients with class III obesity.
In addition, the neonates of both cohorts had no differences in lengths of
NICU stay (p=0.73) or arterial cord pH (p=0.15).
Conclusion: This analysis provides opportunity to assess the efficacies
of betamethasone in a lesser studied but growing population of obstetric
patients with class III obesity. The data demonstrated differences in
the need for neonatal resuscitation in patients with class III obesity,
despite adjustments for gestational age and birth weight. However, the
interventions are short term, as the longitudinal NICU stays are not
statistically significant for the two cohorts and there are no significant
differences in composite or individualized neonatal outcomes. This reveals
a capacity for future investigations on the potentially diverging efficacies
of pharmacotherapies in the class III obesity population compared to the
non-obese population.
F-065
Outcomes Associated with History of Violence FYI Flags for Obstetric
Patients. Claudia Linh Lopez†, Matt Ponzini, Machelle Wilson, Melissa
Chen∗. University of California, Davis, Sacramento, CA, United States.
Introduction: Although FYI flags have been implemented to improve
the safety of healthcare workers, there is limited data to demonstrate their
efficacy. Furthermore, there is the potential to perpetuate preconceived
assumptions about patients, contributing to greater health disparities.
Studies have only analyzed associations between FYI flags and outcomes
of patients in the Emergency Department. Studies are needed to better
understand the impact of FYI flags on obstetric patients and their
outcomes.
Methods: We analyzed inpatient OB encounters over four years at a
single institution for presence of a history of violence FYI flag. Outcomes
included length of stay, readmission, cesarean section and adverse outcome
rates. Adverse outcomes included hemorrhage, anesthesia complications,
obstetrical trauma, postpartum infection, obstetrical embolism, and wound
complications. Demographic factors were compared using ANOVA or
Kruskal-Wallis test for continuous variables and Chi-square or Fisher’s
exact test for categorical variables. The relationship between FYI flag and
outcomes were assessed using generalized linear mixed effect models.
Inference was not conducted on Length of Stay given the sample size
and skewed data.
Results: We identified 6492 inpatient OB records from 5632 individual
patients. There were 52 FYI flags from 38 individual patients.
Demographic characteristics associated with an increased likelihood of
being flagged include African American or Black race (3.5% vs 0.2%
White patients, p < 0.001), public insurance (1.5% vs 0.1% private
insurance, p < 0.001), and lower median zip code adjusted gross income
($68,004 vs $78,143, p=0.009) (Table 1). Flagged patients had a lower
median length of stay (2.5 vs 3.0 days) (Table 2). There were higher rates
of readmissions (15% vs 2.9%, p=0.178) and cesarean sections (21%
vs 18%, p=0.925) amongst patients with flags, though not statistically
significant. There was no difference in adverse events between the two
groups (15% vs 17%, p=0.972).
Conclusion: Although history of violence FYI flags aim to improve staff
safety, there is potential to perpetuate assumptions. In this study, flagged
patients are more likely to be African American or Black, have public
insurance, and have lower income. We do not, however, see significant
differences in outcomes, likely due to these events being rare. These results
should prompt us to consider the differences in experience amongst both
groups and future studies to continue to assess for outcome differences.
180A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
F-066
Nativity, Race, Ethnicity, and Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy.
Madeline R Fram†,1 Kristen Quinn∗,2 Jeffrey Denney.2 1Wake Forest
University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, United States; 2Atrium
Health Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center, Winston-Salem, NC, United
States.
Introduction: Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy refer to a category
of diagnoses including gestational hypertension, preeclampsia, and the
more severe conditions of eclampsia and HELLP syndrome. Alongside
rates of chronic hypertension, rates of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy
have continued to rise in the United States. Hypertensive disorders of
pregnancy are a significant contributor to maternal morbidity and mortality
in the United States. Due to the rising prevalence and the contribution to
mortality and morbidity, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy are an area
of research which remains imperative to further explore. One aspect of
hypertensive disorders of pregnancy which has received deserved attention
is the disproportionate impact of these disorders on women of racial and
ethnic minorities. To gain further insight into this disparity, the theory of
the healthy immigrant effect has begun to be studied in relation to disorders
impacting women in the perinatal period. The aim of the present study is
to examine how nativity, race, and ethnicity are related to the prevalence
of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.
Methods: Retrospective cohort study. Data from the Center for Disease
Control (CDC) Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System (PRAMS)
dataset was analyzed via Χ2 comparisons of prevalence of hypertensive
disorders of pregnancy in foreign and US-born mothers including
subgroup analyses for Black and Hispanic women.
Results: Results of analyses found significant differences in the prevalence
of gestational hypertension between US-born vs foreign-born Black
mothers (12.6% vs 8.0%, Χ2 (1, N = 12,046) = 36.92, p < .001), Hispanic
mothers (9.5% vs 7.2%, Χ2 (1, N = 11,524) = 18.236, p < .001), and the
larger sample of mothers across all reported racial and ethnic backgrounds
(11.0% vs 7.0%, Χ2 (1, N = 63,648) = 163.835, p < .001). Results also
found a significant difference in the prevalence of hypertension eclampsia
between US-born and foreign-born Hispanic mothers (0.8% vs. 0.3%, Χ2
(1, N = 11,152) = 8.480, p = .004).
Conclusion: These results showed evidence of significantly lower
prevalence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy for foreign-born
mothers as compared to their US-born counterparts both in the full study
sample and specifically in the subsamples of women who self-identified
as Black and women who self-identified as Hispanic. This research
provided further insight into how the healthy immigrant effect can apply
to hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, particularly for women of racial
and ethnic minorities.
F-067
Impact of Brainstem Neuropathology on Poor Cardiorespiratory
Control in Conscious Newborn Growth Restricted Lambs. Charmaine
Rock†,1,2 Elham Ahmadzadeh,1 Amy Sutherland,1 David Walker,1 Suzie
Miller,1,2 Beth J Allison∗.1,2 1Hudson Institute of Medical Research, Clayton,
Australia; 2Monash University, Clayton, Australia.
Introduction: The brainstem is critical for regulation and function
of the cardiorespiratory systems. Recent studies in an ovine model of
fetal growth restriction demonstrate that the nucleus of the solitary tract
(NTS), which is involved in autonomic control and heart rate modulation,
shows neuropathological changes late in gestation (Ahmadzadeh (2023)
The Journal of Physiology). FGR is associated with cardiovascular
and respiratory complications after birth and beyond. In the current
study we aimed to determine if neuropathological in the brainstem
persisted postnatally, and whether these changes impacted on postnatal
cardiovascular and respiratory function.
Methods: Twin-bearing pregnant sheep underwent surgery at 89 days
gestation (dGA; term is 148dGA) to induce placental insufficiency and
FGR in one twin, with the twin acting as a sham control. We induced
preterm delivery at 136dGA. The lambs and ewe were monitored, and at
1 day of age both lambs underwent brief surgery for instrumentation of
femoral and carotid arterial and venous catheters, and flowprobes, and a
respitrace for haemodynamic and respiratory assessments. The same day,
and while conscious, the lambs were given a hypotensive and hypertensive
cardiovascular challenge with and without atropine administration, after
which post-mortem was conducted. Autonomic control was assessed with
heart rate variability. The brainstem was collected for histopathological
analysis.
Results: FGR lambs weighed significantly less with evidence of
asymmetric growth restriction. Baseline heart rate and blood pressure
were not different in FGR and control groups. However, FGR lambs were
unable to appropriately defend changes in blood pressure. Dose-dependent
increases in arterial blood pressure and resistance to ⍺1-adrenoreceptor
agonist, phenylephrine were attenuated in FGR lambs compared to
controls (p=0.0329). Further, significant differences in the frequency
of heart rate variability were evident between groups (e.g. total power
921.3 ±285 vs 260±66, p=0.048). In FGR lambs, the NTS region of the
brainstem had significantly increased cell death and reduced dendritic
protein MAP2 (21.3±0.9 vs 18.2±1.6%, p=0.042) and synapsin (6.5±0.4
vs 5.2±0.4%, p=0.036).
Conclusion: This study created a novel model for investigating
cardiovascular function in unanaesthetised 1 day old lambs. We show
that FGR newborn lambs have an impaired ability to regulate blood
vessel tone via ⍺1-adrenergic pathways and that parasympathetic control
of cardiovascular function is reduced in FGR lambs. This study reveals
that brainstem pathology may hinder blood pressure regulation in
FGR offspring, shedding light on the heightened risk of cardiovascular
instability in these neonates and opening new avenues for therapy.
F-068
Neonatal Adiposity Increases with Higher Maternal Fat Oxidation in
Early Pregnancy. Taysir Mahmoud†,1 Begum Mathyk,2 Patrick Catalano,3
Sai Das,4 Perrie O’Tierney-Ginn∗.1 1Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA,
United States; 2U South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States; 3Mass General
Hospital, Boston, MA, United States; 4Tufts University, Boston, MA, United
States.
Introduction: Maternal fat oxidation, or the breakdown of lipids for
energy production, impacts nutrient availability for fetal growth. Indeed,
neonatal adiposity, a risk marker for future obesity, may be associated
with early pregnancy lipid levels. The relationship between maternal
substrate metabolism during early gestation and fetal growth outcomes
is less well understood.
Methods: We measured fat oxidation (FO) after >8 hr overnight fast and
at 30 min intervals up to 180 min following a mixed liquid meal (15%
protein, 35% fat, 50% carbohydrate) using indirect calorimetry (Quark
calorimeter with canopy dilution, COSMED) in N=43 participants
during early (E: 12-16 w) and late (L: 34-36 w) gestation. Fasting and
postprandial (30 and 120 min) cholesterol and triglyceride were measured
simultaneously. FO was calculated in mg/min and adjusted for kg fat
free mass (FFM) measured by BodPod (COSMED). Neonatal body
composition was measured by air displacement (PeaPod, COSMED) <48
hr after birth. Repeated measures 2-way ANOVA assessed differences
between early and late gestation metabolism. Spearman test was used for
correlations with clinical variables. P<0.05 was considered statistically
significant.
Results: FO decreased from fasting (mean ± SD E: 2.07 ± 0.70 mg/
kg FFM/min; L: 2.09 ± 0.66), the nadir at ~60 min postprandial (pp)
(E: 1.21 ± 0.63; L: 1.47 ± 0.72). The decrease in postprandial FO was
greater in early (P<0.0001) compared to late pregnancy (P=0.04). Early
pregnancy FO was positively correlated with neonatal % fat (fasting:
R=0.42, P=0.007; 120 min pp: R=0.37, P=0.02) and absolute fat mass
(fasting: R=0.47, P=0.002; 120 min pp: R=0.38, P=0.02), but not fat-free
mass. Late pregnancy FO was not associated with neonatal % fat but was
moderately associated with fat mass (fasting: R=0.32, P=0.05; 30 min
pp: R=0.36, P=0.03). Regression modeling adjusting for neonatal sex and
gestational age did not impact these associations. Early pregnancy fasting
(R= 0.34, P=0.05) and postprandial (30 min R=0.38, P=0.03; 120 min
R=0.33, P=0.06) total cholesterol was marginally associated with neonatal
fat mass, but not % body fat. Late pregnancy lipids were not significantly
related to neonatal adiposity.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 181A
Friday Posters
Conclusion: In this cohort of healthy pregnancies, early pregnancy lipid
metabolism, adjusted for maternal FFM, was associated with greater
neonatal fat mass and adiposity (as measured by % body fat). Late
pregnancy lipid metabolism (i.e. FO, cholesterol, TG) was not related to
% body fat. This emphasizes the importance of early pregnancy metabolic
adaptations on neonatal outcomes. Maternal exercise levels and lipolytic
markers such as free fatty acids should be incorporated in future analyses.
F-069
Δ9-Tetrahydrocannabinol Directly Inhibits Skeletal Muscle Differentiation
and Upregulates the Oxidative Stress Response System in Differentiating
L6 Myotubes. Sebastian Vanin†, Christian Natale†, Daniel Hardy∗. Western
University, London, ON, Canada.
Introduction: Recent clinical studies indicate that exposure to prenatal
cannabis results in dysglycemia in postnatal life. Previous studies from our
laboratory demonstrate that prenatal exposure to Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC) led to glucose intolerance and insulin resistance (IR) in the muscle
of female offspring. However, to date, contributions of fetal THC exposure
on muscle development and insulin resistance remain elusive. Using an
L6 rat myoblast cell line as an in vitro model of rat muscle growth and
differentiation, we examined if exposure to THC; (1) during L6 myocyte
growth and differentiation, or (2) during L6 myocyte differentiation
alone, impacts gene expression and cellular pathways of L6 myocytes
and myotubes.
Methods: L6 Myocytes were seeded in growth media (GM) overnight
and then changed to GM supplemented with either vehicle (EtOH) or 4
μM THC until they reached 80% confluency (differentiation day 0; D0).
For differentiation experiments, differentiation was induced in vehicle and
THC-exposed D0 myocytes by switching to differentiation media (DM)
supplemented with vehicle or 4 μM THC for 6 days (D6). D0 myocytes and
D6 differentiated myotubes RNA was isolated for bulk RNA-Sequencing.
The steady state mRNA and protein expression of targets of interest
identified from the RNA-Seq experiments were measured via qPCR and
immunoblotting, respectively.
Results: RNA-Sequencing revealed that both THC-exposed L6 myocytes
and myotubes exhibited decreased expression of genes involved in
skeletal muscle contraction. Furthermore, L6 myotubes exposed to
THC during differentiation significantly downregulated markers of
differentiation (Myogenin, Troponin T2, myosin heavy chain [MYH] 3,
MYH7) concomitant with increased PAX7 expression, a marker of muscle
progenitor cells. Furthermore, in L6 myoblasts exposed to THC during
differentiation, both RNA-Seq and qPCR revealed upregulation of genes
involved in cellular and oxidative stress response (ATF4, NRF2, CHAC1,
Gadd45a), along with muscle atrophy (MAFbx/atrogin-1).
Conclusion: Overall, our analysis of the effects of THC on L6 myocytes
and myotubes strongly suggests that regardless of pre-exposure to the
myocyte, THC exposure during the window of differentiation inhibits
muscle differentiation into primary, slow twitch myotubes. Moreover, this
is concomitant with an increase in the expression of genes involved in
cellular and oxidative stress response. To our knowledge, this is the first
study to indicate that THC directly inhibits skeletal muscle differentiation.
F-070
Developmental Programming in Pregnancies Affected by Gestational
Diabetes - The Role of Adipogenesis. Jennifer Mary Thornton†,1,2 Emma
S Garratt,3,4 Zhengyan Huang,1 Mark Pandrich,1,2 Nishel M Shah,1,2 Karen
A Lillycrop,3 Wei Cui,1 Mark R Johnson,1,2 Natasha Singh∗.1,2 1Imperial
College London, London, United Kingdom; 2Chelsea & Westminster NHS
Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom; 3University of Southampton,
Southampton, United Kingdom; 4University of Southampton & University
Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, United
Kingdom.
Introduction: Gestational diabetes (GDM) is the most common metabolic
disorder in pregnancy, linked to adverse pregnancy outcomes and longterm
metabolic dysregulation of both mother and child. Environment,
parental genetics, epigenetics and metabolism interact to influence the
maternal response and fetal developmental programming, changing fetal
epigenome, appetite regulation, metabolic signaling and energy storage.
Some of these may be stably propagated through subsequent generations,
creating a cycle of increasing metabolic disease in the population. Adipose
tissue maintains metabolic homeostasis through the action of anabolic
white adipose tissue (WAT) and catabolic brown adipose tissue (BAT).
Adipogenesis and WAT/BAT ratios are influenced by developmental
programming, determining baseline insulin sensitivity and response to
future metabolic challenges. Even in children of normal birth weight,
GDM increases the prevalence of obesity in the first decade of life by
30%, suggesting a relationship between GDM and infant adipose cell
differentiation. To date, this relationship has not been investigated.
Methods: Pregnant women were recruited at GDM screening (24-34
weeks of gestation, N=35) and followed until birth. Exclusion criteria were
multiple pregnancy, previous GDM, bariatric surgery and pre-existing
diabetes. Umbilical cord tissue was obtained at Caesarean section from
15 subjects, 7 with GDM and 8 normal controls.
Results: There were no significant differences in maternal age, booking
BMI or birthweight centiles. Median HbA1c for the GDM group was
36, 69% managed their GDM with lifestyle changes and 31% needed
metformin in addition. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were isolated
from cord tissue and cultured to 80-90% confluence following one passage.
Identification and phenotyping of cultured MSCs was based on defined
ISCT standards (CD105/CD90/CD73-positive and CD14/CD19/CD34/
CD45-negative) analysed by flow cytometry. Adipogenesis was induced
over 21 days and cells were stained with ORO to confirm adipocyte
differentiation. The proportion of MSCs differentiating into WAT and
BAT between groups was measured using RT-qPCR to assess PPARγ,
FABP4, PRDM16 and UCP1 expression.
Conclusion: In future work, we will relate adipocyte differentiation to the
cells’ epigenetic profile to better understand the role of epigenetic changes
in adipogenesis in GDM pregnancies and how metabolic changes induced
by GDM may persist over subsequent generations. By understanding
these mechanisms, we plan to identify potential therapeutic targets to
break this cycle.
F-071
Offspring Neurocognitive Outcomes Resulting from In Utero Opioid
and Cannabis Exposure: An Exploration of Potential Harm Reduction
Strategies. Anastasia Pisanko†,1 Yusmaris Cariaco,1 Laura Gaudet,2
Shannon Bainbridge∗.1 1University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada;
2Queen’s University, Kingston, ON, Canada.
Introduction: Opioid and cannabis use during pregnancy poses risks to
both maternal and fetal health. While prenatal exposure to each drug has
been studied in isolation, health outcomes associated with poly-substance
use, particularly regarding long-term neurocognitive health in offspring,
remain unclear. Opioid agonist therapies, such as buprenorphine, are
the prevalent harm reduction strategy employed for opioid use during
pregnancy; however, further research is required to investigate its longterm
effects on fetal neurocognitive programming. Using a murine model
of polysubstance exposure in pregnancy, this study examines the impact
of prenatal exposure to fentanyl and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the
active psychoactive component of cannabis, on fetal neurocognitive
programming using measures of motor and coordination, social
behaviours, and spatial memory. The effects of two harm reduction
strategies on improving these outcomes are further explored, specifically
involving the transition to an opioid agonist therapy and/or removing
cannabis exposure by mid-gestation.
Methods: Female wildtype CD-1 mice were administered fentanyl
two weeks before conception, then randomly assigned to one of six
exposure groups: control, fentanyl, fentanyl + THC, fentanyl →
buprenorphine, fentanyl + THC → buprenorphine + THC, fentanyl +
THC → buprenorphine. THC exposure began six days into pregnancy
and harm reduction strategies were implemented 13 days into pregnancy.
All exposures ended after birth. At post-natal days 25-29, 51-55, and
151-155 (adolescence, young adulthood, and adulthood) the offspring
were assessed using the rotarod test for motor skills and coordination,
the Y-maze for spatial memory, and the three-chamber sociability test to
measure social novelty and preference.
182A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Results: Exposure to fentanyl and THC in utero demonstrated significantly
decreased motor and coordination skills in male adolescent mice
(p<0.0206). Switching to buprenorphine as a harm reduction method
enabled adolescent mice to exhibit higher social novelty preference
(p<0.0001); however, lower social affiliation was also observed
(p<0.0001). Moreover, this harm reduction method induced significantly
higher spatial memory scores (p<0.0404). When buprenorphine was
combined with the removal of THC, a significantly higher social novelty
preference was observed (p<0.0001).
Conclusion: Prenatal exposure to opioids and cannabis is associated with
compromised motor skills and social behaviors in mice, particularly within
the adolescent period. Transitioning to an opioid agonist and/or removal
of cannabis exposure by mid-gestation as harm reduction strategies
demonstrates improvements in several neurocognitive health outcomes,
including improvements in spatial memory and aspects of sociability.
F-073
Maternal Preconception Exposure To Endocrine Disruption Chemicals
Has Lasting Impacts On Offspring Growth and Health Outcomes.
Maryam Afghah, Paige C. Powell†, Mary C. Boland†, Melissa Walker†,
Zachary J. Padgett†, Elizabeth Mulligan†, Kylie D. Rock∗. Clemson
University, Clemson, SC, United States.
Introduction: To date, our mechanistic understanding of reproductive
susceptibility to endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) has primarily
focused on exposure during gestation and early postnatal development.
However, little is known about female preconception vulnerability,
between puberty and pregnancy, when reproductive hormones (e.g.,
estrogen and progesterone) fluctuate stimulating ovulation and priming
the uterus for implantation. To address this knowledge gap, we sought to
characterize the physiological consequences of preconception phthalate
exposure on maternal and offspring health outcomes. Phthalates are a
class of EDCs that are well known for their reproductive toxicity and
are of particular concern for women’s reproductive health due to their
prevalence in personal care, beauty, and feminine hygiene products. Thus,
we tested the hypothesis that preconception phthalate exposure will disrupt
maternal estrogen and progesterone signaling which will negatively impact
implantation, placentation, and offspring health outcomes.
Methods: Female CD-1 mice were orally exposed to vehicle (corn oil)
or an environmentally relevant mixture of phthalates (200 μg/kg BW/
day) from postnatal day (PND) 30 - 60. Twenty-four hours after their
final dose they were paired with a male until they presented with a sperm
plug, designated embryonic day (E) 0.5. Pregnant females were then split
into three cohorts to evaluate impacts on: (1) implantation (E5), (2) fetal
and placental development (E15), and (3) adult offspring health outcomes
(PND 60). Maternal body weight and estrus cycle were tracked throughout
the duration of exposure. Implantation sites were counted at E5 using
Chicago Blue stain administered via tail vein injection. Litter size was
counted, and fetal and placental weights were collected at E15. Adult
offspring bodyweight and estrus cycle were tracked between PND 30 - 60.
Results: No significant changes in maternal bodyweight, estrus cycle,
litter size, or number of implantation sites were observed, however we
did see a suggestive increase in the number of days in proestrus and
decrease in the number of days in metestrus in phthalate exposure females
compared to controls. Significant differences in offspring bodyweight were
observed during gestation (phthalate > control) and adulthood (phthalate
< control). Ongoing studies are evaluating structural and molecular
impacts of maternal preconception phthalate exposure on the uterus,
liver, placenta, and brain.
Conclusion: This research will help to fill an important knowledge gap
by investigating causal associations between preconception real-world
EDC exposures and fertility, fecundity, and offspring health outcomes.
F-074
Chronic Parental Delta-9-Tetrahydrocannabinol Use Alters the Sperm,
Placental, and Offspring Epigenome. Rahul J D’Mello,1 Lyndsey E
Shorey-Kendrick,2 R Clayton Edenfield,2 Olivia L Hagen,2 Jason A
Graham,2 Carol B Hanna,2 Charles A Easley,3 Jason C Hedges,1 Jamie O
Lo∗.1 1Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, United States;
2Oregon National Primate Research Center, Beaverton, OR, United States;
3University of Georgia, Athens, GA, United States.
Introduction: Many couples use cannabis, and growing evidence
suggests paternal preconception and maternal prenatal THC (the main
psychoactive component in cannabis) use adversely impacts offspring
outcomes. However, the underlying mechanism is not well understood.
The objective of this study was to identify the shared contributions of
chronic paternal THC use on the sperm epigenome and chronic maternal
THC use on the placental and infant brain epigenome.
Methods: Whole genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) was performed
on sperm DNA collected from 6 adult male Rhesus macaques pre- and
post-chronic THC edible consumption (2.5mg/7kg/day, equivalent to a
heavy human medical cannabis dose). We performed WGBS of placental
DNA from 10 Rhesus macaque pregnancies (5 control, 5 THC-exposed)
and WGBS of brain DNA from 8 infant (6-month-old) Rhesus macaques
(4 control, 4 THC-exposed). Bioinformatics analysis included alignment
to the rhesus reference genome, quality assessments, identification of
differentially methylated regions (DMRs), and comparison between
experiments to identify conserved and unique genes annotated to DMRs.
We focused our analysis on DMR genes with conserved methylation
changes (same direction) across tissues.
Results: We identified 5,663 DMR genes in sperm, 4,089 DMR genes
in the placentas, and 3,107 DMR genes in infant brains. Comparison
across these tissues demonstrated that sperm and placenta shared 1,360
DMR genes, placenta and infant brain shared 834 DMR genes, sperm
and infant brain shared 1,012 DMR genes, and all 3 tissues shared 386
DMR genes. Overlapping gene sets were enriched for genes involved
in neuronal synaptic development, density, and function. Several
hypermethylated DMRs annotated to contactin-associated protein 2
(CNTNAP2), a gene implicated in multiple neurodevelopmental disorders.
Several hypomethylated DMRs annotated to Cub and Sushi Multiple
Domains 1 (CSMD1), a gene associated with child neurodevelopment,
and differentially methylated in sperm, placenta, and brain following
exposure to organic pollutants.
Conclusion: Our study identified conserved DMR genes across sperm,
placenta, and infant tissue following THC exposure, which were enriched
in neurodevelopmental pathways. These findings suggest that the effects
of parental cannabis use on offspring morbidity may be mediated
by THC-associated epigenetic dysregulation of gene expression and
neurodevelopment. This is concerning due to possible transmissibility
to future generations.
F-075
Impact of Maternal Exposure to a Real-Life Environmental Chemical
Mixture via Biosolids on Ovarian Follicle Atresia in F1 Juvenile and
Adult Sheep. Y Zhou†,1 K M Halloran,1 M Bellingham,2 N P Evans,2 R
G Lea,3 K Sinclair,3 P Smith,4 V Padmanabhan∗.1 1University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, MI, United States; 2University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United
Kingdom; 3University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington, United Kingdom;
4AgResearch, Upper Hutt, New Zealand.
Introduction: Lifetime female reproductive capacity is shaped by
the ovarian follicular reserve and follicle development. Depletion of
ovarian reserve depends on follicle activation and atresia. Exposure
to environmental chemicals (EC) may negatively impact the ovarian
reserve and increase atresia. Like humans, the ovarian reserve in sheep is
established prenatally and may be influenced by maternal EC exposure.
Given that humans face simultaneous exposure to many ECs, real-life
models are essential to assess maternal EC exposure risk. Offspring of
sheep grazed on biosolids-treated pasture (BTP) represent one such model.
Using this model our findings show that maternal preconceptional and
gestational exposure to ECs via BTP increases activation rate of follicles,
reducing ovarian reserve in juveniles (9.5 weeks) (Halloran et al., ENDO
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 183A
Friday Posters
2024, #7406) - an effect not seen in adult ovaries (2.5 years) (Zhou et al.,
ENDO 2024, #7395). This study tested the hypothesis that this shift is a
function of altered death and proliferative pathways that impact follicle
health between juvenile and adult life.
Methods: Ovaries were collected from EasyCare juvenile and adult sheep
whose mothers grazed on BTP (juveniles, n=11; adults, n=10) or control
inorganic fertilizer-treated pasture (C, n=10, both juveniles and adults)
from preconception to birth. Follicle health was assessed by ovarian
morphometry; atresia by expression of apoptosis (CASP3), autophagy
(LC3), and ferroptosis (GPX4) as death pathway markers, and proliferation
by Ki67. Data were analyzed by Students t-test or Mann-Whitney U tests
for non-parametric comparisons (P) and Cohens effect size (d) analysis
to assess magnitude of difference.
Results: An increased trend in the percentage of unhealthy activated
follicles was evident in BTP juveniles (d=0.8, P=0.08), but not adults. BTP
juveniles had a higher percentage of unhealthy secondary (P=0.02) and
gonadotropin-responsive (secondary+ antral) (P=0.02) follicles. While no
differences in CASP3 and GPX4 expression between C and BTP groups
at either age, a greater percentage of LC3 positive antral (P=0.03) and a
tendency for a decreased percentage of Ki67 positive secondary (P=0.09)
follicles were observed in BTP vs C juveniles but not adults.
Conclusion: The findings are consistent with autophagy rather than
apoptosis as a major contributor to the compromised health status of
developing activated follicles in juvenile BTP offspring. While changes
in death and proliferative pathways may explain the transient decline in
ovarian reserve in juveniles, whether the quality of surviving activated
follicles is compromised in adults remains to be determined. Funding:
NIH R01 ES030374
F-076
Temporal Distribution of Diagnosed Anxiety Disorders by Birth
Year in the Apple Women’s Health Study: A Descriptive Analysis.
Erin Dracup,1 Gowtham Asokan,1 Carrie Sacrione,1 Zifan Wang,1 Paola
Bojorquez-Ramirez,1 Elizabeth Peebles,1 Jukka-Pekka Onnela,1 Allen
Wilcox,2 Michelle Williams,1 Russ Hauser,1 Brent Coull,1 Shruthi
Mahalingaiah.1 1Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston,
MA, United States; 2National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,
Durham, NC, United States.
Introduction: Anxiety disorders are currently the most commonly
diagnosed mental health condition in the United States, with adults
aged 18-39 facing a greater burden than those aged 40 and older.
Additionally, women are more than twice as likely as men to develop an
anxiety disorder in their lifetime. However, there are limited data on the
temporal distribution of diagnosed anxiety disorder by birth year among
women. The objective of this study was to understand the distribution of
self-reported clinical diagnoses of anxiety disorders by birth year among
participants in the Apple Women’s Health Study (AWHS).
Methods: This descriptive analysis was performed in the AWHS, a
mobile-application-based longitudinal cohort within the United States.
Included in this analysis were 85,621 participants who 1) met AWHS
eligibility criteria and signed informed consent, 2) were born between
1950 and 2005, and 3) selected an answer on the mental health diagnosis
survey question. Response options were select all that apply: anorexia,
anxiety disorder, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism
spectrum disorder, bipolar disorder, bulimia, depression, panic disorder,
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), none of the above, and prefer not
to answer. Proportions and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of participants
who selected ‘anxiety disorder’ among respondents to the mental health
survey question were assessed by birth year.
Results: Among the 85,621 participants who answered the mental health
diagnosis question, 59,563 (69.6%) were non-Hispanic white, 17,802
(20.8%) were college educated (terminal degree), with an average score
of 4.4 (out of 10) on the MacArthur Scale of Subjective Social Status.
The proportion of participants born between 1950-59 who self-reported
clinically diagnosed anxiety disorder was 25.3% (CI: 23.2%, 27.3%)
which increased as follows: 1960-69: 31.2% (29.9%, 32.6%), 1970-79:
39.5% (38.7%, 40.3%), 1980-89: 48.4% (47.8%, 49.0%) 1990-99: 52.2%
(51.6%, 52.7%), 2000-2005: 52.5% (51.6%, 53.4%).
Conclusion: This preliminary analysis shows an increase in the
prevalence of any reported clinically diagnosed anxiety disorder across
birth years, possibly due to improved recognition of mental health issues
in recent decades. Further exploration of combined categories is needed
to understand the effects of concurrent mental health conditions and to
identify specific factors contributing to this increase.
F-078
An Increase in the Fetal Fraction Can Be Associated with Birthweight
Discordance and Selective Growth Restriction. Renyi Hua∗, Yuanqing
Xia∗, Wang Yanlin∗. International Peace Maternity and Child Health
Hospital, Shanghai, China.
Introduction: Twin pregnancies are more likely to be affected by
complications such as selective fetal growth restriction (sIUGR) which
increase the risk of perinatal mortality and morbidity. Identifying those
pregnancies likely to be affected by either sIUGR or birthweight discordant
early can optimise counselling, the timing of interventions and may, in
future, allow trials of preventative treatments. The onset of sIUGR often
correlates with increased levels of cell free fetal DNA (cfDNA). Here we
tested the hypothesis that the fetal fraction (FF) in twin pregnancies can
reflect discrepancies in the birthweights.
Methods: This is a retrospective study of 237 twin pregnancies who
underwent cffDNA screening for aneuploidy and delivered at the
International Peace Maternity and Child Health Hospital in Shanghai
between January 2018 and December 2021.The FFs and birthweights of
the newborns were collected and analysed.
Results: The FF was found to be positively correlated with the difference
of birthweights (β=0.004,95%CI:0.001~0.006). For every 1% increase
in the FF, the difference in the birthweight between twins increased
by 0.4%. A higher FF was significantly associated with an increased
risk of birthweight discordance of 20% (adjusted OR:1.073,95%CI:
(1.009~1.142), 25% (adjusted OR:1.092,95%CI:1.006~1.185) and
sIUGR (adjusted OR:1.130,95%CI:1.038~1.231).Using ROC analysis,
we obtained optimum cut-off points for FFs≥11.790 and ≥14.800 for
birthweight discordance of 20% and sFGR, respectively. Compared
with women with FFs of <11.790, there were a 1.091 -fold higher risk of
birthweight discordance of 20% (adjusted OR:2.091,95%CI:1.218~3.591)
when the FF was≥11.790. There were also significantly increased risks of
birthweight discordance of 25% (adjusted OR:3.045,95%CI:1.297~7.149)
and sFGR (adjusted OR:3.526,95%CI: 501.443~8.618) among womem
with FFs of ≥14.800.
Conclusion: This study showed that the FF was positively correlated
with differences in birthweights. In addition, the FF could be used as an
indicator to predict birthweight discordance and sIUGR for individualised
clinical monitoring of twin pregnancies.
F-079
Quantifying Prenatal and Postnatal Mortality In Extreme Early
Onset Fetal Growth Restriction (EE-FGR): A Systematic Review and
Incidence Analysis. Shohra Qaderi†,1 Giulia Bonanni†,2 Mohammadamin
parsaei†,3 Ehsan Rojhani†,2 Eyal Krispin†∗,2 Dario O Fauza∗,2 Kjersti
Aagaard∗,2 Alireza Shamshirsaz∗.2 1Boston Children’s Hospital, Boston,
MA, United States; 2boston children’s Hospital, Boston, MA, United States;
3Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran, Islamic Republic of.
Introduction: Severe early-onset fetal growth restriction (FGR) is
associated with significant perinatal morbidity and mortality. As short- and
long-term prognoses are influenced by both gestational age and severity of
FGR, quantifying risk is inherently challenging. We hypothesized that a
meta-analysis would provide quantifiable estimates of perinatal outcomes
in pregnancies complicated by early onset FGR.
Methods: We searched PubMed, Scopus, Embase, and Web of Science
databases for relevant studies published from inception to March 2024.
We included all studies, excluding case reports, that involved singleton
pregnancies with an EFWs or abdominal circumferences (ACs) < 3rd
centile, EFWs < 600 g, between 20+0 and 26+6 weeks of gestation, with
no known chromosomal, genetic, or major structural abnormalities. Meta184A
Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
analyses were performed using STATA 18.0 software, with proportions
(percentages) calculated for each outcome using a random-effects model.
Heterogeneity was assessed using the Cochrane Q test and I² statistic.
Results: We analyzed 5 studies meeting good quality standards by NIH
Quality Assessment Tool, comprised of n=614 participants. Given that
two studies had overlapping populations, we prioritized relevant variables
and largest sample size. Pregnancy loss occurred at an overall rate of 39%
(95% CI: 29%-49%, I² = 75.16%). This includes intrauterine fetal demise
(IUFD) at 25% (95% CI: 10%-44%, I² = 88.34%) and termination of
pregnancy at 10% (95% CI: 2%-22%, I² = 89.03%). The rate of neonatal
death within the first 30 days of life was 14% (95% CI: 4%-29%, I² =
86.50%) among live births (Figure 1). Preterm birth (PTBs) documented
in 71% of cases (95% CI: 37%-96%, I2 = 96.52%); with < 32 wk PTBs
comprising 64% of cases (95% CI: 30%-91%, I2 = 96.37%). 29% were
complicated by preeclampsia and/or HELLP syndrome (95% CI: 20%-
39%, I2 = 72.84%).
Conclusion: Our meta-analyses quantitated the incidence of adverse
neonatal and maternal outcomes with early onset, severe FGR. Overall,
pregnancy loss or neonatal death approximated nearly half. These findings
may be valuable when counseling families.
F-080
Inflammation Implicated in the Early Origins of Cardiac Dysfunction
in an Embryonic Model of Obstructive Sleep Apnea. R. Smith†, J.
Goodall, S. Perelmuter, J. Vincent, N. I. Cavell, Y. Niu, Z Mallat, D.
A. Giussani∗. University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is characterised by
intermittent hypoxia (IH), a risk factor for heart disease (Schulz et al.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med 160: 566, 2000). Pregnancy and obesity are
independently associated with OSA (Senaratna. Sleep Medicine Reviews
34: 70, 2017), and global rates of maternal obesity are increasing.
Despite this, little is known about the effects of IH on the developing
cardiovascular system. Here, we tested the hypothesis that IH triggers early
origins of cardiac dysfunction via mechanisms involving inflammation
using the chicken embryo. This is the only established model permitting
isolation of direct effects of hypoxia on the embryo independent of the
mother and/or placenta.
Methods: Fertilized Bovans Brown eggs were incubated under normoxic
(N: 21% O2) or IH conditions to mimic human OSA (30 cycles.h-1 of
21-10% O2 for 12h, BioSpherix OxyCycler) from day 1 of the 21-day
incubation period. At day 19 of incubation, in one cohort of embryos,
following cervical transection and biometry, cardiac function was
determined via a Langendorff preparation. In a second cohort, embryonic
hearts were frozen for RNA transcription profiles of target genes by
RT-qPCR. In a third cohort, embryonic hearts were perfusion fixed and
processed for immunofluorescence on CD3 paraffin sections or stained
with an anti-macrophage/monocyte antibody on cryosections. Data were
compared with the Student’s t test. Significance was accepted when
P<0.05.
Results: Compared to N controls (n=26), IH embryos (n=26) showed
asymmetric growth restriction (0.61±0.01 vs. 0.67±0.01 head diameter
: body weight ratio), impaired left ventricular (LV) developed pressure
(19.5±0.6 vs. 14.4±0.5 mmHg), elevated LV end diastolic pressure
(8.6±0.5 vs. 12.6±0.7 mmHg) and sympathetic dominance (1.4±0.1
vs. 3.3±0.1 maximal heart rate (HR) response to isoprenaline/maximal
HR response to carbachol; all P<0.05). Compared to N (n=20), IH
embryo frozen hearts (n=20) showed an increase in the expression
relative to housekeeping genes of HIF-1α (1.05±0.01 vs. 1.93±0.01),
NF-kB (0.44±0.01 vs. 0.72±0.02), IL-6 (0.96±0.01 vs. 1.53±0.01), IL-10
(0.91±0.03 vs. 1.29±0.01), IFNy (0.97±0.01 vs. 1.54±0.03), and PTGES
(0.84±0.01 vs. 1.19±0.02; all P<0.05). Comapred to N (n=12), IH embryo
fixed hearts (n=12) showed greater monocytes/macrophages presence,
expressed both as ventricular cell density (26±5 vs. 72±15 mm2) and as
monocyte/macrophage clusters (15±2 vs. 30±6 mm2; all P<0.05). There
was no presence of any CD3+ cells in either group.
Conclusion: IH during development, as it may occur in pregnancy in
women affected by obstructive sleep apnea, can trigger embryonic origins
of heart disease via mechanisms involving inflammation.
Supported by The British Heart Foundation
F-081
Analysis of the Fetal Ovine Cell Free RNA Transcriptome Showed
Rapid Induction of Injury Markers in an Artificial Placenta Model of
Progressive Fetal Hypoxia. Haruo Usuda†,1,2 Ikeda Hideyuyki†,2 Kumagai
Yusaku†,3 Shimpei Watanabe†,2 Erin Fee†,1 Sean Carter†,3 Tsukasa
Takahashi†,2 Saito Yuya†,2 Noriyoshi Mochii†,2 Binny Sesurajam∗,3 Mark
I Evans∗,4 Lawrence D Devoe∗,5 Christian R Machedonia∗,6 Sebastian
Illanes∗,3 Mahesh Choolani∗,3 Masatoshi Saito∗,2 Matthew Kemp∗.1,3 1The
University of Western Australia, Crawley, Australia; 2Tohoku University,
Sendai Miyagi, Japan; 3National University of Singapore, Singapore,
Singapore; 4Ichan School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY,
United States; 5Augusta University, Augusta, GA, United States; 6Lancaster
General Health, Lancaster, PA, United States.
Introduction: Current intrapartum hypoxia tests have limited diagnostic
benefits, are not gestation-standardized, and have not reduced unnecessary
labour intervention rates nor had significantly improved outcomes. We
aimed to use an artificial placenta (AP) platform to perform plasma cellfree
RNA (cfRNA) biomarker studies in the setting of experimental,
progressive acute fetal hypoxia.
Methods: Ovine fetuses with singletons (term=150d) were adapted
to artificial placenta therapy at 123d (n=7) or 98d GA (n=8). FiO2 and
gas flow volumes to the membranous oxygenator were standardized
(fetal SO2 of 65%, pCO2 of 40mmHg) over 24h. The FiO2 and gas flow
volumes were then reduced by 5% every 30 minutes to induce progressive
hypoxia. Hourly assessments of physiology, arterial blood gas data, cardiac
ultrasound and plasma sampling for cell free RNA (at 0, 20, 40% reduction
of FiO2 and gas volume to the membranous oxygenator) were conducted.
Results: There were progressive decreases in pH, BE, pO2, SO2, and
increases in pCO2, lactate levels in both groups. At a 40% reduction, fetal
arterial pH was <7.0 and base excess <-12, both considered the clinical
benchmarks for neurologic damage risk. Significant pH and base excess
deviations occurred before cardiac ultrasound-based fetal well-being
assessments became abnormal. For plasma cfRNA analyses, in 123d
fetuses, 11/27 (upregulated/downregulated differentially expressed genes
(DEGs)_ 0% vs. 20 %) and 26/37 (0% vs 40%) DEGs were identified.
In 98d fetuses, 13/52 (0% vs 20%) DEGs and 65/25 (0% vs 40%)
DEGs were significantly identified (>1.5-Fold Change, FDR<5 %). In
both groups, differentially regulated DEGs had a pattern of hypoxicinduced
cell apoptosis (upregulated FNML2, DACT1; downregulated
METTL15, CDC5L), ischemic astrocytosis (upregulated CLCF1, BYSL),
cardiac injury (upregulated NPR3) and glycolysis enhanced in hypoxia
(upregulated LPCAT2). There was a distinctive pattern of DEG expression
between 98d and 123d groups.
Conclusion: In the fetal sheep, changes in fetal plasma cfRNA in response
to hypoxia are rapid, precede ultrasound-detectable changes, and are
gestation-specific. cfRNA tests could serve as a rapid, gestation-specific
indicator of birth asphyxia.
F-082
Fetal Growth Restriction is Associated with Reduced Dendritogenesis
of Hippocampal Neurons That Persists Postnatally. Tegan A White†,1,2
Charmaine R Rock,1,2 Amy E Sutherland,1,2 Yen Pham,1,2 Beth J Allison,1,2
Emily J Camm,1,2 Suzanne L Miller∗.1,2 1Monash University, Clayton,
Australia; 2Hudson Institute of Medical Research, Clayton, Australia.
Introduction: Fetal growth restriction (FGR) is a common pregnancy
complication in which the fetus fails to reach its growth potential,
most often caused by placental insufficiency. Clinical brain imaging
demonstrates that FGR is associated with reduced total and grey matter
brain volume, including in the hippocampus, and learning and memory
deficits. The cellular basis for reduced hippocampal volume and cognitive
deficits in FGR infants remains unknown. We assessed apical and basal
dendritic arbors of hippocampal neurons in long-gestation lambs, at
newborn and 4-weeks of age to compare dendritogenesis in control and
FGR offspring.
Methods: We induced early-onset placental insufficiency and FGR via the
surgical procedure single umbilical artery ligation (SUAL) at ~88 days
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 185A
Friday Posters
gestational age (dGA, term ~148dGA). We compared appropriately grown
control (control; n=19) and FGR (n=18) lambs at either newborn age (24-
hour) or 4-weeks-of-age. At these timepoints, brain tissue (hippocampus)
was collected for Golgi-Cox staining, immunohistochemical and
histological analysis. To analyse neuronal morphology, dendritic length,
number of branches and dendritic complexity of hippocampal CA1
pyramidal neurons were analysed.
Results: Birth weight was reduced in FGR lambs (FGR 3.2±0.8kg
vs. control 4.5±0.6kg, p<0.001). At newborn age, hippocampal CA1
pyramidal neurons in FGR lambs had deficits in basal (p=0.008) and apical
(p<0.005) dendrite branch number, and apical length (p=0.040). Reduced
branching and dendrite length in newborn FGR lambs were not only
sustained in the 4-week-old FGR lambs but had worsened, accompanied
by reduced hippocampal area (p=0.013). In control lambs, summated
(apical plus basal) dendrite length (p=0.001) and branching (p=0.039)
of CA1 neurons increased between newborn age and 4-weeks, but no
significant increase was observed in dendrite length or branching in FGR
lambs (p=0.068 and p=0.264, respectively). Circulating malondialdehyde
(oxidative stress) was increased in FGR newborn lambs and proinflammatory
cytokine IL-6 was doubled (p=0.027).
Conclusion: FGR caused by placental insufficiency is associated with
reduced dendritogenesis in hippocampal neurons, likely contributed by
a pro-oxidative and pro-inflammatory environment. After birth, deficits
in neuronal morphology are not corrected and program for life-long
structural and functional deficits.
F-083
Regulation of Fetal Brain Development by Estrogen in Non-Human
Primates. Sahar Khoshravesh†, Anguo Liu∗, Jeffery Babischkin∗, Graham
W Aberdeen∗, Eugene D Albrecht∗, Jun Lei∗, Irina Burd∗. University of
Maryland, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Estradiol (E2), the most potent estrogen, is crucial for fetal
brain development, influencing sex differences and providing trophic and
neuroprotective effects. While much of the knowledge about E2’s impact
on brain development is derived from rodent models, its role in primates is
less understood. This study investigates how estrogen regulates fetal brain
development using a non-human primate model of estrogen depletion.
Methods: Pregnant baboons were divided into three groups: untreated
controls (n=6), letrozole-treated (n=4, 115 μg/kg/day), and letrozole
plus estradiol benzoate (E2) treated (n=4) from days 100 to 165 of
gestation. On day 165, cesarean sections were performed, and fetal brains
were collected. The frontal lobe was analyzed with Nissl staining and
immunohistochemistry (IHC) for markers such as estrogen receptor alpha,
MAP2 (neuron), Oligo2 (oligodendrocyte), Iba-1 (microglia), and GFAP
(astrocyte). Expression levels were quantified and analyzed statistically
using One-Way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc tests.
Results: Maternal serum and fetal umbilical E2 levels were reduced by
95% and 90%, respectively, in the letrozole group (p<0.01) compared
to controls. Nissl staining revealed a 22.07% (p<0.05) increase in the
thickness of layers II and III of the fetal frontal lobes in the letrozole
group, which returned to near-control levels with E2. The nucleolus count
in layer III was 40.83% (p<0.05) higher in the letrozole group, decreasing
to control levels with E2 (p<0.05). ERα expression in layer III decreased
by 29% (p<0.05) in the letrozole group compared to controls, returning to
near-control levels with letrozole + E2. MAP2 expression in layer III was
29.01% (p<0.05) lower in the letrozole group, returning to control levels
with E2 (p<0.05). Oligo2 expression in layer III decreased by 20.59%
(p<0.05) in the letrozole group and returned to near-control levels with
E2 (p<0.05). Iba-1 expression in layer III was 42.78% (p<0.05) lower in
the letrozole group, restored to near-control levels with E2. No significant
differences were found in GFAP expression across groups. Co-expression
analysis indicated nearly 100% co-expression of ERα and Oligo2, with
some Iba-1 also co-expressing with ERα, similar to GFAP co-expression.
Conclusion: This study highlights the critical role of E2 in fetal brain
development, showing that estrogen depletion disrupts neurodevelopmental
processes in the frontal lobe of baboons. The restoration of key parameters,
such as layer thickness and marker expression, with estradiol treatment
emphasizes estrogen’s essential role and suggests potential therapeutic
approaches for brain developmental deficits caused by estrogen deficiency.
F-084
Genetic Influences on Congenital Malformations: Strain-Dependent
and Sex-Dimorphic Exencephaly in Scavenger Receptor Class B Type 1
(SR-B1) Knock-Out Mouse Embryos. Camila Romero-Muñoz†,1 Gabriela
Belledonne†,2 Fujiko Saavedra†,1 Patricia Romo†,1 Dolores Busso∗.1
1Universidad de los Andes, Santiago, Chile; 2Pontificia Universidad
Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
Introduction: The etiology of neural tube defects (NTD) involves both
environmental and genetic factors. Mice have been instrumental in
understanding NTD pathophysiology, although most studies focus on
single mutations in a specific background and overlook embryonic sex.
Mice lacking the HDL receptor SR-B1 (SR-B1-KO) display a high rate
of exencephaly (EXE), a common cranial NTD. This study compared
EXE incidence in SR-B1 KO embryos from both sexes obtained from
heterozygous (HET) intercrosses of mice from two colonies (SR-B1/J
and SR-B1/UAndes) maintained at different animal facilities and with
different backcrossing histories.
Methods: Embryos were collected from HET intercrosses of both colonies
on embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5). Neural tube closure and developmental
progress (somite count) were assessed under a magnifying scope. PCR
on extraembryonic tissues was used for genotyping and sexing embryos.
Genetic background was determined by SNP genotyping of dams. Gene set
enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed using previously published
RNA-seq data (doi: 10.1186/s12864-018-5110-2). Results are presented
as mean±SD or proportions, and statistical significance was set at P<0.05.
Statistical analyses were performed using One-Way ANOVA, Student´s
t-test or Fisher’s exact test.
Results: SR-B/J embryos had fewer somites at E9.5 (15.4±5.8) compared
to SR-B1/UAndes embryos (18.3±4.1; p=0.005). EXE incidence was
significantly higher in SR-B1/J-KO embryos (57%) than SR-B1/UAndes-
KO embryos (19%; p=0.01). Genetic background analysis showed a
20%:80% C57Bl/6J:129 ratio in SR-B1/J females vs. a 50%:50% ratio in
SR-B1/UAndes females (p=0.05). Approximately 70% of embryos with
NTD were female in both colonies. RNAseq analysis of female embryos
at E9.5 revealed higher X-chromosome gene dosage in SR-B1/UAndes-
KO embryos with EXE compared to morphologically normal and WT
embryos (p<0.01, Kolmogorov Smirnov Test).
Conclusion: The 129 genetic background and female sex increase
susceptibility to EXE in SR-B1 KO mice, despite identical genetic
deficiencies. This suggests that genetic background and sex-specific
factors play crucial roles in NTD development.
F-085
Metabolic Profiling of Human PGRMC1-Intact and PGRMC1-
Depleted Xenograft Endometrial Tumors. Sandeep Paudel†,1 Nicole
Kelp∗,2 Cindy Pru∗,1 James Pru∗.1 1University of Wyoming, Laramie, WY,
United States; 2Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, United States.
Introduction: Endometrial cancer is the most common gynecologic
malignancy and it commonly displays elevated expression of progesterone
receptor membrane component (PGRMC) 1 and PGRMC2. PGRMC1 and
PGRMC2 harbor a cytochrome B5-like sterol and heme binding domain,
a single transmembrane domain and numerous post-translational sites
(e.g., sumoylation, SH2/3, phosphorylation). Reports from our group
and others have shown that PGRMC1 is associated with or contributes
to the progression of many cancer types. PGRMC1 influenced human
endometrial xenograft tumor growth, response to chemotherapy treatment,
angiogenesis, and immune cell recruitment in a progesterone-independent
manner. It has been tied to several features that contribute to cancer
pathology, but the exact mechanism(s) remains poorly understood.
Elucidating metabolic pathways associated with PGRMCs seems valuable
for understanding the biology of these enigmatic proteins.
Methods: Human endometrial xenograft tumors were developed by
intraperitoneal inoculation of PGRMC1-intact, PGRMC1-deplete and
PGRMC1 overexpressing (PGRMC1-OE) endometrial cancer cells
WITHDRAWN
186A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
(IKLV) in immunocompromised mice (n=10). A metabolomics approach
was used to characterize differences in metabolites from PGRMC1-intact
and PGRMC1-deplete tumors. Culture experiments were completed to
study the impact of histamine on IKLV cell proliferation and death.
Results: PGRMC1 depletion caused a significant decrease in select
amino acids, lactoylamino acids, carnitine and derivatives, fatty acids,
glycerophospholipids, and a 4-fold increase in histamine. Histamine
receptors H1R and H2R were more abundant in PGRMC1-intact and
PGRMC1-OE cells compared with PGRMC1-deplete cells. H3R an H4R
receptors were not detected. A dose-dependent response to histamine
in PGRMC1-intact and PGRMC1-OE cells was observed, with 1 μM
increasing proliferation and 10 μM causing cell death. Histamine primarily
induced cell death of PGRMC1-deplete IKLV cells, a finding consistent
with high histamine levels observed in the smaller PGRMC1-deplete
IKLV xenograft tumors, and in the established role of PGRMC1 in
resisting various stressors.
Conclusion: The absence of PGRMC1 in endometrial xenograft tumors
resulted in a correlative decrease in select amino acids, lactoylamino
acids, carnitine and its derivative, and fatty acid metabolism and
increased histamine production. The link between PGRMC1 and transport
or biosynthetic pathways of amino acids and fatty acids is currently
unclear, but may be related to the heme binding and transport capacities
of PGRMC1. PGRMC1 is a novel target for preventing the growth
and progression of solid tumors. Supported in part by NIH HD102386
and HD112788, NSF GM103432, and the Curtis and Marian Rochelle
Endowment.
F-086
Circulating miRNA Levels Following a 14 Week Aerobic Exercise
Intervention during Pregnancy: A Secondary Exploratory Analysis of
the PEACH RCT. Alejandro A Candia†,1 Rachel J Skow,2 Anita Quon,2
Craig D Steinback,2 Sandra T Davidge,2 Margie H Davenport∗.2 1University
of Colorado, Denver, CO, United States; 2University of Alberta, Edmonton,
AB, Canada.
Introduction: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of
death in women worldwide. Therefore, the prevention of sex-specific
CVD, such as hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP), is essential.
Physical activity (PA) during pregnancy (i.e. 150 min moderate PA/
week) decreases the risk of HDP by 40%. microRNAs (miRNAs) have
shown potential in CVD prevention, diagnosis and treatment. miRNAs
expression varies depending on exercise conditions such as type (aerobic/
strength) and duration (acute/chronic). Increased early-pregnancy PA
energy expenditure was associated with higher circulating levels of miR-
21-3p, and lower levels of miR-146b-5p in women carrying female and
male offspring, respectively. Both miRNAs have been associated with CV
outcomes in pregnant and non-pregnant populations. However, it is not
clear how these miRNAs levels change depending on exercise conditions
across pregnancy. Aim: To determine the change in circulating levels of
miR-21-3p and miR-146b-5p after a 14-week, moderate intensity aerobic
exercise intervention in pregnant women carrying female offspring.
Methods: A subset of 10 pregnant women carrying female offspring
from the Prenatal Exercise and Cardiovascular Health (PEACH) study
(NCT02948439; Ethics ID Pro00061045) were included. Participants
were randomized to a supervised aerobic exercise program (E, n=5,
50-70% of heart rate [HR] reserve, 40 min, 3 times/wk, ~16 wks) or a
control group (C, n=5, standard care). At ~20 (baseline) and ~35 (postintervention,
PI) wks of pregnancy fasted blood draw and neurovascular
assessment (muscle sympathetic nerve activity [MSNA], fibular nerve)
were carried out. HR, burst incidence (BI), and plasma miRNAs (qPCR,
Pfaffl quantification) were determined. One time point data and percentage
of change (d%) from baseline to PI were submitted to Mann-Whitney U
test. Baseline and PI data were submitted to Two-way ANOVA. Significant
values if p value < 0.05.
Results: Exercise prevented the rise in BI (lower d%) from baseline
to PI, despite no difference in maternal HR (absolute and d%) between
groups. At baseline both miRNA-146b-5p and miR-21-3p levels were not
different between groups. From pre-to-post intervention miRNA-146b-5p
was not different between groups or compared to baseline. In contrast,
miR-21-3p increased from baseline to PI in both groups, but the E group
had significantly higher levels at PI.
Conclusion: A 14-week aerobic exercise training intervention from 2nd
to 3rd trimester of gestation increases miR-21-3p levels in plasma from
women carrying a female offspring. This aligns with the previously
observed attenuation in the rise in MSNA during pregnancy in this cohort.
Future work in a larger cohort will allow to determine the relationship of
miR-21-3p with maternal outcomes.
F-087
Development and Testing of a Wearable Perfusion Sensor for Detection
of Postpartum Hemorrhage. Francesca Bonetta-Misteli†, Toi Collins,
Todd Pavek, Madison Carlgren, David Monks, Leonid Shmuylovich,
Antonina Frolova, Peinan Zhao, Christine M O’Brien∗. Washington
University in St. Louis, Saint Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH), defined by the loss of
greater than 500-1000 mL of blood following delivery and is the leading
and most preventable cause of maternal mortality. Current methods for
PPH detection do not provide early indicators of hemorrhage, nor can they
quantitatively monitor blood loss in real-time. There is an urgent need for
a technology that can monitor occult blood loss, which would otherwise
go undetected, in real-time to detect PPH in early stages.
Methods: A compact, low-cost ($150), wearable device that continuously
monitors perfusion via laser speckle flow index (LSFI) was previously
developed to detect blood loss and was validated in a swine model of
hemorrhage. The device is configured in reflectance mode and includes
a 10-25 mW, 785 nm laser and a Raspberry Pi camera. A Raspberry Pi
controller, battery, and Bluetooth connection to a PC enable a wireless
wristwatch form factor that provides near real-time insights (~10 second
delay between data collection and result display). A univariate regression
model was developed using the mean LSFI signal to predict blood loss
volume (mL) using 10-fold cross validation. In addition, the pulsatile
waveforms collected from swine were used to extract a set of 11 additional
features that describe the waveform morphology. These features were used
to train a multivariate regression model for blood volume loss prediction.
Further, hemoglobin concentration was added to the multivariate model
to determine whether this added variable significantly improved blood
loss prediction accuracy.
Results: The univariate regression model that used mean LSFI to predict
blood loss had an average absolute error of 273 mL. The multivariate
regression model that included pulsatile waveform features had a
significantly lower average error of 137 mL, where the correlation
between true and predicted blood loss volume was r=0.86. The additional
hemoglobin concentration to the multivariate model further reduced the
average error in blood loss to 60.35 mL and correlation to r=0.93.
Conclusion: While additional swine hemorrhage studies are ongoing
to expand the sample size and test the robustness of these results, these
preliminary findings show feasibility for using a wearable perfusion sensor
to provide real-time, actionable blood loss information. If successful,
such a device could help shift the paradigm of clinical PPH management
from reaction to prevention. Improved feature extraction methods and
machine learning models are being developed to further improve blood
loss prediction accuracy and investigations in non-pregnant and pregnant
patients is underway.
F-088
More Than Just BMI: Obesity, Central Adiposity and Oxytocin
Requirements. Emma J. Altieri†, Nandini Raghuraman∗, Antonina I.
Frolova∗, Jeannie C. Kelly∗, Katherine H. Bligard∗. Washington University
School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Obesity is associated with decreased rates of spontaneous
labor and vaginal delivery, possibly due to decreased myometrial response
to endogenous and exogenous oxytocin (OT). We aimed to evaluate risk
factors for high-dose OT administration in induced or augmented labor,
specifically the degree of obesity and central adiposity.
Methods: This is a nested case-control study of 250 term gravidas with
obesity enrolled in a prospective cohort between 2020 and 2021 at a
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 187A
Friday Posters
single center. Participants underwent a transabdominal ultrasound on
admission for delivery which included measurement of subcutaneous
(SQ) depth at 3 abdominal locations. Cases undergoing cesarean for
indications other than arrest of labor and cases who did not receive OT
during labor were excluded. Our primary outcome was high-dose OT
infusion received during labor defined as maximum dose ≥ 20 milliunits/
minute. Univariable analysis and multivariable logistic regression were
used to examine the association of degree of obesity as defined by the
World Health Organization body mass index (BMI) classes and increased
central adiposity (mean SQ depth > 75th percentile on ultrasound) with
the administration of high-dose OT.
Results: Of 198 included gravidas with obesity, 81 (40.9%) received
high-dose OT. BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2 was associated with administration of
high-dose OT (P < 0.01), but increased central adiposity was not (P =
0.46; Table). After adjusting for confounders, class 3 obesity, nulliparity,
cervical dilation < 2 cm at initiation of OT, and magnesium use were all
independent risk factors for receipt of high-dose OT (Figure). Secondary
analysis excluding those who did not achieve complete cervical dilation
showed similar results.
Conclusion: Within a cohort of gravidas with obesity, class 3 obesity,
but not increased central adiposity, is a risk factor for high-dose
OT administration in labor. Further research is needed to clarify the
mechanism by which obesity impacts OT response.
F-089
Genomic Analysis of Human Alphapapillomaviruses in Vaginal
Swabs from Pregnant Participants Reveals Association Between
Viral Transcription with Preterm Birth. Madison N Eschbach,1 Kristine
Wylie∗,1 Molly Stout∗,2 Todd Wylie,1 Jane Schrimpf,1 Hunter Olson,1
Chakravarty Hannah,1 Lei Liu,1 Lili Liu.1 1Washington University in St
Louis, St. Louis, MO, United States; 2University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, MI, United States.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB) occurs in ~10% of births in the
United States and can impact long-term health and development. The
vaginal microbiome has been studied extensively in relation to PTB,
but the vaginal virome is often overlooked. However, viral infections
are known to impact maternal and fetal health. HPV infection is linked
to PTB. About 80% of women are infected with an HPV at some point
in their lifetime. Because of this prevalence, it is important to examine
the mechanism by which HPV is associated with PTB. Some types of
HPV contain progesterone response elements (PRE) that increase viral
transcription in the presence of progesterone leading to a more robust
infection. Few PREs have been functionally characterized. Because
progesterone levels increase throughout pregnancy, we hypothesized that
gene expression would be higher from HPV genomes with predicted PREs
compared to those without and that higher levels of HPV transcription
would associate with PTB.
Methods: Vaginal swabs were analyzed from 113 participants who
delivered preterm and 226 term birth controls, matched on race and
gestational age at sample collection. Participants were sampled once per
trimester. DNA and RNA from more than 900 swabs were analyzed to
characterize HPV genomes and transcriptomes, respectively. Viral nucleic
acid from both DNA and RNA sequencing libraries was enriched using
ViroCap, a targeted enrichment method we developed that enhances
detection of all vertebrate virus genomes in metagenomic sequencing
assays. Viral sequences were identified with ViroMatch software followed
by variant analysis. HPV types were analyzed for presence or absence of
PRE with FIMO software.
Results: PREs were predicted in about half of the HPV types detected
in the cohort, and sequence analysis showed that PREs were highly
conserved within each HPV type. Transcripts were more likely to be
detected from HPV types that contained predicted PREs compared to
those without (P=0.0001). Higher HPV transcript levels were detected
in those who delivered preterm compared with those who delivered at
term (P=0.002). However, the presence of PRE-containing HPVs was not
sufficient to associate with PTB.
Conclusion: While the presence of PRE-containing HPVs is not sufficient
to predict PTB, it follows that if (1) higher levels of HPV transcripts
are associated with preterm birth, and (2) transcripts are detected more
frequently from PRE-containing HPVs compared with those lacking
PREs, then (3) PRE-containing HPVs contribute to preterm birth. This
emphasizes the need for a mammalian model to study the effects of PREs
on papillomavirus pathogenesis.
F-090
Palmitoleate Protects Against Lipopolysaccharide-Induced
Inflammation and Inflammasome Activity. Sathish Kumar Natarajan.
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE, United States.
Introduction: Inflammation is part of natural immune defense mechanism
against any form of infection or injury. However, prolonged inflammation
could perturb cell homeostasis and contribute to the development of
metabolic and inflammatory diseases including maternal obesity, diabetes,
cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndrome-associated steatotic
liver disease. Polyunsaturated fatty acids have been shown to mitigate
inflammatory response by generating specialized pro-resolving lipid
mediators which take part in resolution of inflammation.
Methods: Here we show that palmitoleate, an omege-7 monounsaturated
fatty acid exerts anti-inflammatory properties in response to
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) mediated inflammation in trophoblasts,
human THP-1 derived macrophages and mouse bone marrow-derived
macrophages (BMDMs).
Results: Exposure of bone-marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs)
to LPS or Tumor necrosis factor alpha induced robust increase in the
expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and supplementation of
palmitoleate inhibited LPS-mediated upregulation of pro-inflammatory
cytokines. We also observed that palmitoleate was able to block LPS+ATPinduced
inflammasome activation mediated cleavage of pro-caspase 1
and pro-interleukin (IL)-1beta. Further, treatment of palmitoleate protects
against LPS-induced inflammation in human THP-1 derived macrophages
and trophoblasts. Co-exposure of LPS and palmitate, a saturated free
fatty acids dramatically induced inflammation and cell death in BMDMs,
however, treatment of palmitoleate blocked LPS and palmitate-induced
cell death in BMDMs. Further, LPS and Palmitate together results in the
activation of mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPKs) such as JNK,
ERK, p38 MAPK and pretreatment of palmitoleate inhibited the activation
of all the MAPKs and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kappa B
(NF-kB) in BMDMs.
Conclusion: In Conclusion, Palmitoleate shows potent anti-inflammatory
properties against LPS-induced inflammation and LPS+Palmitate+ATPinduced
inflammasome activity on cell death.
F-091
Assessing the Antenatal Care-Seeking Determinants Associated with
the Penetration of the WHO Eight-Visit Antenatal Care Policy Across
States in Nigeria. Christiana Ikemeh†,1 Frerichs M Leah∗,1 Adeyemi O
Adedayo∗,2 Arogundade Kazeem∗,3 Shea M Christopher∗,1,4,5 Trogdon G
Justin∗.1 1Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill., Chapel Hill, NC, United States; 2Center for
Infectious Diseases Research and Evaluation, Lafia, Nigeria; 3Bruyere
Research Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada; 4North Carolina Translational
and Clinical Sciences Institute, Chapel Hill, NC, United States; 5University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States.
Introduction: Following the adoption and implementation of the 2016
WHO eight-visit antenatal care (8vANC) policy in Nigeria, a national
cross-sectional survey conducted in 2021 indicated that there were
significant differences in the utilization rates of 8vANC across all
the states. Our research aimed to generate extensive insights into the
associated determinants underlying the observed differences in the 8vANC
utilization rates across states in Nigeria.
Methods: We used the post-implementation Nigeria Multiple Indicator
Cluster Survey (MICS6) 2021 sample, n = 9,416, to perform secondary
analyses using the theory, model, and framework (TMF) implementation
research approach, and multivariable analyses. The outcome was defined
as the penetration of WHO 8vANC policy and measured as the proportion
of women who used a minimum of 8vANC out of the total number of
188A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
women who had live births within two years before the survey in 2021.
We used the multilevel modeling logistic regression for statistical analyses
because of its ability to examine contextual effects in cross-sectional data.
Results: The results showed that the residual variation in 8vANC
utilizations - after accounting for the explanatory variables - attributable
to between-state differences went from 46% in the unadjusted model,
to 11% in the final adjusted model. The findings indicated that women
in southern states had the highest odds of 8vANC utilization. We also
found that women who self-reported their perception of life satisfaction as
‘very happy’ (OR: 1.81, 95% C.I: 1.25 - 2.63, p = 0.002) and ‘somewhat
happy’ (OR: 1.63, 95% C.I: 1.14 - 2.40, p = 0.012) had the highest odds
of 8vANC utilization across states. Conversely, the perception of wife
beating justified ‘if she goes out without telling husband’ had low odds
(OR: 0.77, 95% C.I: 0.61 - 0.97, p = 0.032) on the penetration of the WHO
8vANC policy across states.
Conclusion: A higher proportion of the observed differences in the
utilization of 8vANC occurred among women nested within states than
between states. Our findings support the need for a revised policy that
will promote the integration of routine prenatal mental health screening
into the current ANC model.
F-092
Impact of Social Determinants of Health on Prevalence of Diabetes
Mellitus in Pregnancy. Jamie Blue†, Chelsea Barrows†, Jameela Media†,
Nuong Truong†, Layan Alrahmani∗, Nicole Sprawka∗, Ann Lal∗, Joana
Lopes Perdigao∗. Loyola University Chicago, Maywood, IL, United States.
Introduction: Social Determinants of Health (SDoH) are estimated
to account for 80% of health outcomes and have a significant effect
on maternal health and neonatal outcomes. The objective of this study
was to determine if those impacted by SDOH have an increased risk of
diabetes during pregnancy.
Methods: This was a retrospective cohort study of patients delivered at
Loyola University Hospital from March 2022 to August 2022, assessing
the prevalence of SDoH concerns in pregnant pregestational and
gestational diabetics compared to individuals without diabetes. A total of
420 patients met inclusion criteria by completing SDOH intake during
admission. Two sample T-tests were used to analyze continuous variables
and chi-squared tests for categorical variables.
Results: Of the eligible 420 women, 17% had gestational or pregestational
diabetes. Diabetic patients were more likely to be white, with greater BMI,
and had less weight gain in pregnancy when compared to nondiabetic
patients (table 1). Diabetic patients were significantly older (31.7 vs 29.3,
p=.0008). Upon review of the impacts of SDoH, financial strain, housing
instability, transportation concerns, food insecurity, perceived level of
stress, and intimate partner violence were not significantly different
between diabetic and nondiabetic patients (table 2). Alcohol use was
increased among nondiabetic patients when compared to diabetic patients
(17.7% vs 8.1%, p=0.04).
Conclusion: These results show there is no difference in SDoH between
pregnant patients with diabetes compared to those without. This is
consistent with other studies that have shown no difference in rates of
gestational diabetes when comparing high-resource zip codes to food
deserts. Further studies are needed to assess how SDoH increases the
risk of gestational and pregestational diabetes. Knowing that SDoH
significantly impacts the health outcomes of patients, we need to continue
to innovate in our methods to screen and measure SDoH.
F-093
Prenatal Psychosocial Stress Disturbs Maternal-Placental Iron
Regulation in a Mouse Model. Rebecca K Campbell,1 Zoe Strong,1
Guomao Zhao,1 Audrey Duff,2 Tamar Gur,3 Michael Bailey,2 Irina
Buhimschi.1 1University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States;
2The Research Institute at Nationwide Children’s Hospital, Columbus, OH,
United States; 3The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, United States.
Introduction: Fetal iron stores accrued in utero are critical for fetal and
infant development. Maternal prenatal stress may increase the risk of low
fetal iron at birth, according to human observational studies. In a pilot
study, we used a previously developed mouse model of prenatal stress
to investigate its effects on maternal, placental, and fetal iron regulation
and storage. We hypothesized that prenatal stress would prioritize iron to
maternal and placental metabolic needs thereby reducing fetal iron stores.
Methods: Dams bred from C57/Bl6 mice were mated with conspecific
males and assigned randomly to stress (STR, n=4) or control (CTL,
n=4) groups. STR dams were subjected to 2-hour restraint stress daily at
embryonic day (E)10-E16 while CTL dams were left undisturbed. Dams
were sacrificed at E18.5 and livers, placentas, and fetal livers collected.
Livers were dissected and frozen; placentas were dissected and one horn
was frozen and the other embedded in formalin. Immunohistochemistry
(IHC) was performed on slides from fixed placentas with probes for
iron and two iron transporters, ferroportin (Fpn) and transferrin receptor
(Tfr). Stained slides were captured in digital images and coded semiquantitatively
by two independent investigators. Non-heme iron was
measured in livers and serum by colorimetric spectrophotometry using
an iron calibrator. Expression of genes coding for proteins involved in
iron transport and regulation Tfr (Tfrc), Fpn (Fpn), and hepcidin (Hamp)
were examined with qPCR. The ratios of Tfr: Fpn, a measure of iron
sequestration, and Tfrc:Fpn were calculated. T-tests were used to explore
statistical differences between STR and CTL.
Results: Iron dysregulation was observed in maternal livers, placentas
and, to a lesser extent, fetal livers. In the placenta, more iron deposits and
more intracellular Fpn were observed in STR vs. CTL mice. Serum and
liver non-heme iron were highly correlated in dams (ρ=0.86) but showed
weaker inverse correlations of about -0.25 between the two and fetal liver
iron. Serum and hepatic iron trended lower in STR vs. CTL dams, but
variability was high, especially in maternal and fetal liver samples. In the
maternal and fetal livers, Tfrc expression was higher, FPN lower, and the
ratio of the two higher in STR vs. CTL (p=0.026 and 0.005 for Fpn:Tfrc
in maternal and fetal livers, respectively). Tfrc, Fpn, and their ratio did
not differ in the placenta.
Conclusion: We found evidence of iron dysregulation in iron replete
pregnant mice following prenatal stress. Future research is needed to
examine the combined effects of prenatal stress and lower dietary iron
intake on fetal iron accrual towards identifying pregnancies at risk,
mechanisms of effect, and targets for intervention.
F-094
Maternal and Neonatal Impact Following Discontinuation of
Intrapartum Glucose Monitoring in Persons with Gestational Diabetes.
Nathalie H Chang†, Jessica M Jarnagin†, Jacqueline M Moreno†, Lucia
Eade†, Mira Woods†, Brian Hernandez∗, Patrick S Ramsey∗, Angela R
Boyd∗. UT Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States.
Introduction: Gestational diabetes (GDM) is one of the most common
medical complications affecting pregnant patients with increasing
prevalence. Tight antepartum glucose control can improve maternal and
neonatal outcomes; however, there is variability in glucose monitoring
during labor and delivery amongst institutions, and no clear guidelines
for intrapartum care of patients with GDM is established. In 2016,
observations within our institution that intrapartum glucose monitoring
rarely led to administration of insulin or glucose to maintain euglycemia
in patients with GDM led to a practice change of omitting intrapartum
glucose monitoring in those with mild GDM. The purpose of this study
is to evaluate the impact of discontinuing intrapartum glucose monitoring
on neonatal hypoglycemia rates in pregnant persons with gestational
diabetes (GDM).
Methods: We conducted a retrospective chart review to compare
intrapartum glucose values in pregnant persons with A1 or A2 GDM after
discontinuation of routine glucose monitoring in 2017. We compared
patients from 2015 to 2020 to ensure adequate time for intervention to
take effect. Patients with preexisting diabetes, delivery within 2 hours of
admission, and scheduled repeat cesarean deliveries were excluded. The
primary outcome was rate of neonatal hypoglycemia. Demographic data,
maternal, and neonatal outcomes were collected. Data were analyzed
using Wilcoxon rank sum, Mann Whitney U, two sample T-test, Pearson
Chi Squared, or Fisher’s exact test.
Results: Of 214 persons with GDM, there were 111 in the intrapartum
glucose monitoring group and 103 in the post-discontinuation group.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 189A
Friday Posters
Demographic data were similar in age, race, parity, BMI and gestational
age at delivery. There was a higher proportion of non-Hispanic patients
(p<0.02), patients with insurance (p<0.003), and increased metformin use
(p<0.004) in the post-intervention group. From 2015 to 2020, the mean
number of glucose measurements decreased from 2.19 to 1.01 (p<0.001)
with no difference in insulin or dextrose administration. Although the rate
of neonatal hypoglycemia decreased after discontinuation of intrapartum
glucose monitoring (18.2% to 9.6%), this was not statistically significant
(p=0.08). There was a lower mean glucose value at 4 hours of life (HOL;
65 vs. 61 mg/dL, p<0.007) but no difference at 24 HOL in pre- and
post-intervention groups. Importantly, there was no difference in NICU
admission or need for intervention for neonatal hypoglycemia within 24
HOL after discontinuation of intrapartum glucose monitoring.
Conclusion: These findings demonstrate the safety of not performing
intrapartum glucose monitoring in persons with GDM. The observed
trend toward our decreased rate of neonatal hypoglycemia warrants
further evaluation.
F-095
Gestational Diabetes Mellitus Shares Genetic Risk Factors with Type
1 and Type 2 Diabetes and is Predicted by Diabetes Polygenic Scores.
Jessica LG Winters†,1 Elizabeth A Jasper,2 Jacklyn N Hellwege,2 Todd L
Edwards,2 Digna R Velez Edwards∗.2 1Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
TN, United States; 2Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN,
United States.
Introduction: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), a form of glucose
intolerance arising during pregnancy, can result in maternal and fetal
morbidity and chronic complications. Affecting approximately 14%
of pregnancies worldwide, multiple studies link GDM risk with type
2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), but few have described shared genetic
architecture with type 1 (T1DM). In this retrospective case-control study,
our objective was to determine whether available polygenic risk score
(PRS) models for T1DM (PGS002025) and T2DM (PGS003867) were
associated with GDM risk.
Methods: We utilized electronic health records and genotype data from
VUMC’s BioVU. Inclusion criteria were pregnant adult persons with
Non-Hispanic White (NHW) or Non-Hispanic Black (NHB) reported
race and ethnicity. Cases were defined as the first record of ICD-9/ICD-
10 codes for GDM and pregnancy. Controls were defined as the last
record of pregnancy-related ICD codes. Both case and control groups
were created with and without the exclusion of diabetes ICD codes.
This resulted in 502 cases and 3687 controls (2776|1413; NHW|NHB)
with no history of diabetes and 948 cases and 4971 controls (4013|1906;
NHW|NHB) with history of diabetes. Associations between each PRS
and GDM diagnosis were modeled using logistic regression with median
body mass index (BMI), age at first GDM code (cases) or last pregnancy
code (controls), and top 10 principal components as covariates. We used
linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) to calculate significant
genetic correlations between both types of diabetes and GDM.
Results: T2DM PRS was significantly associated in NHW and NHB
individuals with (p=1.47X10-8|p=8.12X10-5; NHW|NHB) and without
(p=2.38X10-4|p=4.19X10-3; NHW|NHB) history of diabetes. T1DM PRS
was only significantly associated with GDM risk in NHW individuals
with history of diabetes (p=3.04X10-3) and in NHB individuals without
(p=7.68X10-3). Excluding individuals with history of diabetes, NHW
individuals had 1.26 increased odds of developing GDM based on T2DM
(95% CI=1.05-1.28) [AUC=0.76], and NHB individuals had 1.26 and
1.33 increased odds of developing GDM based on T1DM (95% CI=1.06-
1.50) [AUC=0.70] and T2DM (95% CI=1.10-1.62) [AUC=0.71]. We
observed significant genetic correlations between GDM and both T2DM
(RG=0.76; SE=0.06; p=1.66X10-41) and T1DM (RG=0.73; SE=0.12;
p=4.54X10-10).
Conclusion: The significant genetic correlations observed between GDM,
T1DM, and T2DM indicate shared genetic factors and risk profiles.
Collectively, these findings demonstrate that diabetes PRS models,
particularly for T2DM, can be leveraged to identify pregnant individuals
at elevated risk of GDM and inform personalized intervention strategies
to mitigate maternal and fetal complications.
F-097
Maternal Outcomes in Women with Twin Pregnancy and Preexisting
Heart Disease: Data from ROPAC. Gurleen Wander†,1 Anneroos van
der Zande†,2 Jolien W. Roos-Hesselink∗,2 Mark R. Johnson∗.1 1Imperial
College, London, United Kingdom; 2Erasmus MC, University Medical
Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
Introduction: The cardiovascular adaptation to pregnancy is more marked
in twin compared to singleton pregnancies. This may result in a higher
rate of cardiac events in women with pre-existing heart disease and a twin
pregnancy compared to those with a singleton pregnancy. Objective:
To test the hypothesis that, in women with pre-existing heart disease, a
twin pregnancy is associated with a greater risk of cardiac events than a
singleton pregnancy.
Methods: The Registry Of Pregnancy And Cardiac disease (ROPAC)
is a global registry, in which pregnant women with pre-existing heart
disease were prospectively enrolled between 2007-2018. The outcomes
of pregnancy were compared between 96 women with twin pregnancies
and 5643 singleton pregnancies.
Results: Of the baseline demographic details, twin mothers were
older (32.1 vs. 29.5 years, p<0.001) and singleton mothers had more
prior interventions (55.5% vs. 43.0%, p=0.02) and were more often
smokers (4.7% vs. 0%, p=0.03). Otherwise, there were no differences in
cardiac diagnosis, NYHA class, mWHO class, country of origin, prior
hypertension, diabetes mellitus, atrial fibrillation and signs of heart failure
at booking. During pregnancy, rates of heart failure were higher in twins
(25.0% vs. 11.2%, p<0.001), other cardiac outcomes were similar in twins
and singletons, with no differences in maternal mortality, arrhythmia,
endocarditis, thrombosis, dissection, acute coronary syndrome or hospital
admission for cardiac reasons. Obstetric outcomes were worse in twin
pregnancies with higher rates of intrauterine growth restriction (11.5% vs.
4.3%, p=0.003), preterm birth (57.3% vs. 15%, p<0.001), very preterm
birth, between 28-32 weeks (8.3% vs. 2.1%, p=0.001), moderate to
late preterm birth, between 32-37 weeks (46.9% vs. 12.2%, p<0.001),
Caesarean birth (83.3% vs. 49.1%, p<0.001), emergency Caesarean
section (21.9% vs. 13.2%, p=0.02), low Apgar score of <7 at 5 minutes
(22.9% vs. 6.6%, p<0.001), small for gestational age babies (28.1%
vs. 9.9%, p<0.001), and a lower gestational age at birth (35.4 vs. 38.0
weeks, p<0.001) and birthweight (2115.8/2168.9 for twin1/2 vs. 2987.4
gm, p<0.001).
Conclusion: Women with a twin pregnancy have a substantially higher
rate of cardiac failure than singleton pregnancies, but otherwise have
similar rates of cardiac events during pregnancy. Obstetric outcomes were
worse in twin pregnancies, as expected.
F-098
Recurrence Risk of Iron Deficiency Anemia in Successive Pregnancies
by Timing of Diagnosis, Interpregnancy Intervals, and Race/
Ethnicity. Darios Getahun∗,1,2 Vicki Y Chiu,1 Theresa M Im,1 Michael
J Fassett.3,4 1Research & Evaluation, Kaiser Permanente Southern
California, Pasadena, CA, United States; 2Health Systems Science, Kaiser
Permanente Bernard J. Tyson School of Medicine, Pasadena, CA, United
States; 3Obstetrics & Gynecology, Kaiser Permanente West Los Angeles
Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States; 4Clinical Science, Kaiser
Permanente Bernard J. Tyson School of Medicine, Pasadena, CA, United
States.
Introduction: Prenatal iron deficiency anemia (IDA) is a major public
health concern associated with increased risk of maternal and fetal
morbidity and mortality. We aim to examine the recurrence risk of IDA
in successive pregnancies and whether its recurrence risk is modified by
the timing of diagnosis, the gestational age at delivery, the interpregnancy
interval, and maternal race/ethnicity.
Methods: We performed a retrospective cohort study of pregnancies using
the Kaiser Permanente Southern California (2009-2022) longitudinally
linked health records of the first two (n = 82,610) and first three (n =
14,925) successive pregnancies. The recurrence risks were examined by
estimating the adjusted odds ratios (aOR).
Results: The risks of IDA in the second pregnancy among patients with
and without previous IDA were 38.3% and 17.9%, respectively (aOR: 2.7,
190A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.6, 2.8). The recurrence risk was greater
for patients who delivered at term (aOR: 2.7, 95% CI: 2.6, 2.8) and 34-
36 weeks (aOR: 2.7, 95% CI: 2.3, 3.1) than those at 20-33 weeks (aOR:
2.3, 95% CI: 1.8, 3.0) gestation in the first pregnancy. The recurrence risk
was substantially higher for those with 1st and 2nd-trimester diagnoses
in their first pregnancy. Regardless of the gestational age at delivery
in the first pregnancy, non-Hispanic (NH) Blacks (aOR 2.0, 95% CI
1.9, 2.2) and Hispanics (aOR 1.3, 95% CI 1.2, 1.4) had a higher risk of
recurrence compared to NH-Whites. IDA recurrence risk was unaffected
by interpregnancy interval and correlated with the number of previous
pregnancies complicated by IDA.
Conclusion: There is an increased recurrence risk of IDA in subsequent
pregnancies that is influenced by race/ethnicity, timing of diagnosis,
and gestational age at delivery in the first pregnancy. The number of
pregnancies complicated by IDA synergistically adds to the recurrence
risk. The findings underscore the need to develop more targeted
interventions based on prior history of the condition.
F-099
Characterizing Health Economic Studies’ Portrayal of Birthing Parent
and Fetal Conflicts: A Systematic Review. Nithya Sivakumar†, Jasivet
N Chavez†, Marissa Harris†, Swetha Ganesan†, Rainney Chiu†, Brenda
Martinez-Puente, Nayab Mehmood†, Lihong Mo∗. University of California
Davis School of Medicine, Sacramento, CA, United States.
Introduction: Perinatal health economic studies are challenging
because the maternal and fetal patients may have conflicting interests.
The objective of our study is to understand and characterize the current
methods of accounting for both maternal and fetal health in conditions
where there is a direct conflict of interest.
Methods: We performed a systematic review to analyze cost effectiveness,
cost- utility, and decision analyses articles that focused on clinical
conditions that cause a direct conflict of interest between the pregnant
individual and their fetus. “Pregnancy”, “quality-adjusted life year
(QALY)” and equivalent MeSH terms were included in the search
strategy in Medline (Ovid) and EMBASE (Elsevier). Extracted articles
were subsequently screened and included in the final cohort. Using an
adapted CHEERS checklist, we extracted data and assessed the quality
of each included publication, to characterize the current methods used in
accounting for conflicting maternal and fetal interests.
Results: Of 2040 studies that were imported, only 44 studied met full
study criteria. Studies were categorized in six common themes. For each
theme, all papers characterized the total QALY by adding respective
maternal and fetal QALYs indicating a 1:1 weight in the models, which
does not support the real-life practice.
Conclusion: Methods used in prior health economic studies in the
perinatal population assigned equal weight in pregnant individuals
and their fetuses which does not reflect the different values of families
regarding individual health. Given the complexity in decision-making in
cases where conflict exists in the interest of the pregnant individual and
fetus, we need alternate methods of to account for priority differences in
perinatal decision making.
F-100
Leukemia Inhibitory Factor Receptor Signaling is an Important
Contributor to the Regulation of Hemochorial Placental Development.
Savannah L Speckhart†,1 Khursheed Iqbal,1 Marija Kuna,1 Ayelen Moreno-
Irusta,1 Mahfuz R. Adnan†,1 Michael J. Soares∗.1,2 1University of Kansas
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States; 2Children’s Mercy
Research Institute, Kansas City, MO, United States.
Introduction: Hemochorial placentation is a morphogenetic process vital
to successful pregnancy outcomes. Placentas are composed of specialized
trophoblast cells targeting the uterine vasculature and forming the
maternal-fetal barrier. Dysregulation of placental development can lead
to pregnancy complications. Human trophoblast stem (TS) cells provide
a powerful in vitro model to dissect regulatory processes controlling
trophoblast cell lineage development. The rat is a valuable in vivo
model to better understand the dynamics of trophoblast cell biology in a
physiologic context. A cytokine called leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF)
and its receptor (LIFR) have been implicated in the establishment of
pregnancy and placentation. In this study, we investigated the role of LIF
and LIFR in trophoblast cell development and placentation.
Methods: We localized components of the LIFR signaling pathway in
first-trimester human placentation sites by in situ hybridization. We also
examined their expression in human TS cells maintained in the stem state
or induced to differentiate. LIF effects on TS cell differentiation were also
investigated. CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing was used to create a global
Lifr mutant rat model. Wild type and homozygous mutant placentation
sites were phenotyped using histological and transcriptome analyses. Data
were analyzed in GraphPad by unpaired t-tests.
Results: Human placentas express components of the LIFR
signaling pathway in extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cell column and
syncytiotrophoblast (STB) compartments. In the rat, LIF is expressed in
the mesometrial uterine compartment and intraplacental yolk sac, while
LIFR is most prominently expressed in mesometrial decidua and within
sinusoidal trophoblast cells and STB layer 1 (STB-1) of the labyrinth
zone. LIFR transcripts exhibited a prominent increase as human TS
cells differentiated into STB or EVT cells. Addition of exogenous LIF
disrupted the pathway directing TS cell differentiation to EVT cells. In
the rat, a founder with an 88 base pair deletion within Exon 2 was used to
establish the Lifr mutant model. Lifr null placentas were growth restricted
and showed striking disorganization of STB layers within the labyrinth
zone. Lifr null fetuses were smaller than wild type fetuses and died in
utero during the latter part of gestation.
Conclusion: In summary, we have demonstrated the involvement of LIFLIFR
signaling in the regulation of trophoblast cell differentiation and
morphogenesis of the hemochorial placenta. [Supported by GM103418
(SLS), Lalor Foundation (SLS, AMI), HD116506 (SLS), NIH-LRP (SLS),
HD020676, HD105734, HD112559, and the Sosland Foundation]
F-101
Multiple Cesarean Sections Induce Abnormal Placental Development—
An Animal Model of Placenta Accreta Spectrum Disorders. Yongdan
Ma. Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, China.
Introduction: Placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) is a serious condition
associated with severe postpartum hemorrhage, often leading to
emergency hysterectomy. Research has predominantly focused on
clinical diagnosis and the prevention of adverse maternal outcomes, but
the underlying pathological mechanisms remain poorly understood, in
part due to the limitations of animal models. In our current study, we
established an animal model by mimicking the clinical risk factors for
PAS and a history of cesarean section (CS).
Methods: We performed three CSs on pregnant full-term mice, collected
placental and other related samples at each time point, and compared
the pregnancy outcomes, perfusion and development of the placenta,
placental morphology, trophoblast cell invasion and angiogenesis at the
maternal-fetal face. Changes in key proteins in circulating blood were
detected to clarify the relationship between placental local pathological
changes and circulating blood.
Results: As the number of CSs increased, the model mice presented
adverse pregnancy outcomes, such as placental dysplasia, decreased
perfusion of the placenta, incomplete remodeling of spiral arteries,
and trophoblast invasion into the deep myometrium of the maternalfetal
interface. In addition, the model mice exhibited abnormal fetal
development and an imbalance of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic effects
both in the placenta and peripheral blood.
Conclusion: The placental pathological phenotypes and adverse
pregnancy outcomes of mice with a history of three CSs are similar to
the clinical characteristics of PAS. This model can be used to study the
pathogenesis of PAS at the maternal‒fetal interface or in the placenta and
can further be used in studies of the outcomes of PAS in progeny, which
is a gap in clinical research. This study also provides a basic research
model for the development of possible early prevention methods for PAS.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 191A
Friday Posters
F-102
PPARG-Centric Transcriptional Re-Wiring during Differentiation
of Human Trophoblast Stem Cells into Extravillous Trophoblasts.
Qingqing Guo, Joonhyuk Choi, Muyoung Lee, Jonghwan Kim. The
University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, United States.
Introduction: Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor gamma
(PPARG) is a nuclear receptor family transcription factor (TF), known
to play essential roles in trophoblast development and placentation.
Dysregulation of PPARG in trophoblast differentiation has been implicated
in pregnancy complications, such as preeclampsia (PE) and gestational
diabetes. However, the molecular mechanisms of PPARG-dependent
gene regulation and its interactions with other regulatory factors in
human trophoblast cell types remain unclear. Using human trophoblast
stem cells (TSCs), mimicking placental cytotrophoblasts (CTs) and their
differentiation into extravillous cytotrophoblasts (EVTs), we explored
the hypothesis that PPARG has distinct functions in TSC stemness and
EVT differentiation.
Methods: The TSC cell line CT27 was maintained in a self-renewal
state and subsequently differentiated into EVTs. PPARG binding loci
in both TSCs and EVTs were identified using ChIP-seq, and their
associated biological functions were analyzed. To assess the role of
PPARG and its ligand-binding domain (LBD) in TSC self-renewal
and EVT differentiation, loss-of-function assays were performed
using shRNA-mediated knockdown (KD) of PPARG and the PPARG
antagonist T0070907 (T007). The effects of PPARG hyperactivation on
EVT differentiation were examined through either overexpression (OE)
of PPARG or treatment with the PPARG agonist rosiglitazone (Rosi).
The functional interaction between RXRA, a key dimerization partner
of PPARG, and PPARG during EVT differentiation was analyzed using
agonist treatment and ChIP-seq. PPARG-associated cofactor occupancy
changes upon T007 treatment were examined with ChIP-seq.
Results: ChIP-seq revealed that PPARG specifically regulates celltype-
specific genes in TSCs and EVTs. In TSCs, PPARG KD impaired
self-renewal and downregulated TSC essential genes as identified by
RNA-seq, whereas treatment with T007 had no effect. Both PPARG KD
and T007 treatment disrupted EVT differentiation. Hyperactivation of
PPARG with Rosi significantly enhanced EVT invasion, while PPARG
OE did not produce the same effect. The RXRA agonist was able to rescue
the T007-induced defect in EVT differentiation, and RXRA binding
patterns closely resembled those of PPARG in both TSCs and EVTs.
T007 treatment reduced the binding of PPARG-associated cofactors
and mediator components near EVT genes. A PPARG-focused model
involving other TFs and cofactors was generated to illustrate PPARG’s
role in maintaining TSC stemness and EVT differentiation.
Conclusion: PPARG exhibits distinct functions and binding patterns
in TSCs and EVTs, interacting with cell-type-specific TFs to establish
unique transcriptional regulatory networks. While the LBD of PPARG
is dispensable for TSC self-renewal, it plays a crucial role in regulating
EVT differentiation.
F-103
Transcriptional and Phenotypic Effects of Nutrient Restriction on
Placentation in a Mouse Model of Fetal Growth Restriction. James
R Bardill, Holly Wood, Caitlin Eason, Courtney Breckenfelder, Clyde
Wright, Sarkis Derderian∗. University of Colorado Anschutz, Aurora,
CO, United States.
Introduction: Decidual trophoblast invasion is essential for successful
placentation, ensuring sufficient nutrient and oxygen delivery to the
developing fetus. In fetal growth restriction (FGR), this process is often
impaired. This study utilizes a caloric-restricted mouse model to evaluate
longitudinal transcriptional regulators that may inhibit trophoblast
invasion in FGR.
Methods: Pregnant mice were fed either a standard or 50% calorierestricted
diet beginning at E9. Placentas and invasion sites were analyzed
at E11, E13, E15, E17, and E18. miRNA and mRNA sequencing were
performed on E13 placentas to determine early gestational transcriptional
regulators. To investigate longitudinal transcriptional effects of maternal
malnutrition, qPCR of placental tissue was performed for genes related to
trophoblast invasion (MMP2, MMP9, EFNA1, Rac1, Rras, and ASCL2)
at each timepoint. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) of trophoblasts with
cytokeratin 8 (CK8) was performed on placental invasion sites at each
time point to determine depth and quantity of trophoblast invasion within
the decidua. Statistical analysis was performed using Student’s t-test or
ANOVA, with significance level set at p<0.05.
Results: Caloric restriction significantly reduced fetal and placental
weights beginning at E13, with persistent growth restriction observed
at E15, E17, and E18 (p<0.05 for all timepoints). IHC demonstrated
a reduction in 1) decidual depth, 2) distance of trophoblast invasion
into the decidua, and 3) quantity of trophoblasts within the decidua at
E18. This impaired growth trajectory was accompanied by significant
reductions in the expression of key genes associated with trophoblast
invasion, including MMP2, MMP9, EFNA1, Rac1, Rras, and ASCL2, in
FGR placentas at E15, E17, and E18. E13 miRNA/mRNA sequencing
identified significant differential expression for miR-703 (Fold Change:
0.15, p=0.03) as a target for Rras and miR-30d-3p (Fold Change: 0.46,
p= 0.002) as a target for ASCL2.
Conclusion: This analysis demonstrates that a caloric-restriction mouse
model successfully replicates key features of FGR pathophysiology,
including diminished fetal and placental growth, downregulation of
essential trophoblast invasion genes, and impaired trophoblast invasion
into the decidua. Our findings suggest that reduced nutrient delivery to
the placenta may trigger early upregulation of miR-703 and miR-30d-3p,
leading to reduced expression of genes critical for trophoblast invasion.
This cascade likely contributes to impaired decidual invasion and the
development of FGR.
F-104
Harnessing the Renewal Potential of YAP to Improve Reproductive
and Pregnancy Outcomes. Elif Kadife, Alesia Harper, Yih-Hsuan Ho, Inge
Du Plessis, Natalie Binder, Natalie Hannan, Fiona Brownfoot. University
of Melbourne, Heidelberg, Australia.
Introduction: Placental insufficiency underlies complications like fetal
growth restriction (FGR) and preeclampsia, often leading to poor fetal
outcomes and miscarriage. Existing treatments focus on enhancing blood
flow to the placenta but have limited efficacy. Our approach pioneers
placental regeneration by activating the YAP transcription factor, known
for its role in organ growth and wound healing, to stimulate new, healthy
placental cells. This novel strategy aims to restore placental function,
improving both fetal outcomes and IVF success.
Methods: In a two-phase study: 1) Human placental samples from
preterm FGR, preeclampsia+FGR (≤34 weeks), and gestationally
matched controls were collected (n=20/cohort), alongside first trimester
and term and preterm FGR explants (n=5/treatment). YAP activation
was measured via qPCR, Western Blots, and proteomics, and its effects
on cellular proliferation (Ki67), apoptosis (cl-Caspase 3), and placental
cell markers (cytotrophoblasts - Integrinβ4, syncytiotrophoblasts - CK7,
and endothelial cells - CD31) were assessed. Primary Human Umbilical
Vein Endothelial Cells (HUVECs) were exposed to normoxic and
hypoxic conditions to mimic FGR, and functional outcomes such as
cell viability, wound healing, and proliferation were evaluated (n=5/
experiment). A novel xenograft model was employed to study the effects
of YAP activation on human placental tissue implanted in mice (n=3/
treatment). 2) Mouse embryos (day 4) and pregnant mice were treated
with YAP-activating compounds to evaluate implantation, placentation
and safety (n=3/treatment).
Results: YAP was found to be significantly dysregulated in early preterm
(<34 weeks) FGR placentas both alone (p≤0.001) and in combination
with preeclampsia (p≤0.01). Treatment with compounds restored YAP
activity in both term (p≤0.01) and FGR placental explants (p≤0.01). In
explants, YAP activation led to a significant increase in endothelial cell
(CD31) (p≤0.001 in term, p≤0.01 in FGR) and cytotrophoblast marker
staining expression (p≤0.01 in FGR). Angiogenic gene expression and
key pathways involved in cell cycle regulation and DNA replication were
upregulated in proteomic analysis. HUVECs treated with YAP-activating
192A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
compounds showed enhanced viability, faster wound healing (p<0.05).
YAP activation enhanced embryonic outgrowth in vitro without negatively
impacting maternal, placental, or fetal outcomes in vivo.
Conclusion: Our strategy focuses on cellular regeneration to repair
failing placentas, going beyond enhancing blood supply. By stimulating
new placental cell growth, we target the underlying causes of placental
insufficiency. Moreover, YAP role in enhancing trophoblast outgrowth
could revolutionise IVF outcomes by improving implantation success.
These findings offer a groundbreaking approach to placental regeneration.
F-105
The Placental Microenvironment: How Villous Stroma Impacts
Endothelial Cell Mechanosensation. Stefano Ginocchio†, Amanda
Flockton, Taylor Hord, Maxwell McCabe, Kirk Hansen, Emily Su∗.
University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, United States.
Introduction: In severe, early-onset fetal growth restriction with absent or
reversed umbilical artery Doppler indices (FGR), placentas exhibit sparse
vasculature due to impaired angiogenesis. Extracellular matrix (ECM) is
a fundamental component of tissue microenvironment and regulator of
angiogenesis. We previously reported that cell-derived matrices (CDM)
generated from FGR or control placental stromal fibroblasts (FBs)
impact placental endothelial cell (EC) angiogenic capacity. We sought
to determine how placental stromal ECM-derived cues impact placental
angiogenesis, hypothesizing that stromal derangements in FGR result in
aberrant EC responses mediating angiogenic properties.
Methods: Human villous tissue (VT), placental ECs, and FBs were
obtained from FGR or uncomplicated, term placentas (control). Confluent
FBs were subjected to ascorbic acid to generate CDM. Control (N=6)
and FGR (N=6) VT and CDM underwent ECM-optimized extraction and
mass spectrometry (MS) with an Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid spectrometer.
VT was stained with picrosirius red normalized to terminal villous area
(PSR ratio) and analyzed with AI-driven Visiopharm platform. Control
or FGR ECs were plated on decellularized control or FGR CDM, fixed,
followed by immunofluorescent analysis for intracellular localization of
YAP, a mechanosensitive, ECM-regulated transcriptional co-activator of
cell proliferation and migration. Proteomic data were filtered to 1% FDR.
One-way ANOVA or t-tests were used for other comparisons.
Results: FGR villous tissue exhibited significantly more fibrotic villi as
revealed by PSR ratio (0.122 vs 0.047, p<0.001). MS analyses showed no
significant differences in absolute peak intensities among core matrisome
proteins between control or FGR VT. However, the FGR matrisome
exhibited a significantly increased proportion of collagens (COL1A1,
COL1A2) and fibronectin (FN1) (34.87% vs 23.64%, p=0.032). Within
CDM, 43 of 97 core matrisome proteins were differentially expressed,
with FGR CDM demonstrating significant increases in absolute counts
of COL1A1 (4.90E6 vs 2.31E6, p=0.0036), COL1A2 (1.72E6 vs 0.96E6,
p=0.043), and FN1 (11.6E6 vs 3.73E6, p=0.0002). Furthermore, COL1A1
and FN1 were both significantly more insoluble in FGR than control
CDM (COL1A1: 78.6% vs 61.6%, p=0.0043; FN1: 83.7% vs 37.6%,
p<0.0001). Exposure of either control and FGR ECs to FGR-derived
CDM, as compared to control CDM, significantly increased YAP nuclear
translocation (p<0.0001), suggesting that aberrant stromal biophysical
cues regulate angiogenic cellular processes.
Conclusion: FGR placental villous stroma exhibit ECM compositional
properties characteristic of fibrosis. These derangements are recapitulated
in our CDM model and contribute to disparate cellular mechanosensing
as observed by differential subcellular EC YAP localization in response
to either control or FGR CDM.
F-106
Placenta-Specific Autophagy Drives Trophoblast Differentiation and
Function. Maira L Perez†. National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences/National Institutes of Health, Durham, NC, United States.
Introduction: The placenta is the first organ to develop during pregnancy
and functional impairments can lead to pregnancy disorders. The placenta
is the center of oxygen, nutrient, and hormone exchange between the host
and fetus, making it essential for proper fetal development. Autophagy
is a cellular pathway that clears protein aggregates and damaged
organelles in response to stressors and cytosol reprogramming during cell
differentiation. For this, the cell uses several autophagy related (ATG)
genes to generate a unique organelle, the autophagosome, that fuses with
lysosomes to degrade and recycle its components. Vesicles transporting
ATG9A, the only transmembrane ATG protein, act as membrane seeds
for the autophagosome formation. Interestingly, the placenta is the only
organ expressing ATG9B, a paralog to the ubiquitous ATG9A protein.
We hypothesize that ATG9B is required for placenta-specific autophagy
functions, including proper cell differentiation and function.
Methods: To explore this hypothesis, we generated an Atg9b knockout
(KO) mouse model where we are comparing the placenta morphology
and histology of KO mice and control dams in combination with RNAseq
transcriptomics. Additionally, we are using full-term human placentas to
analyze gene expressions through RT-qPCR analysis in the tissue and
isolated primary cytotrophoblasts.
Results: In the Atg9b knockout (KO) mouse model, the adult mice were
healthy yet sub-fertile, suggesting a pregnancy-specific phenotype. In fullterm
human placental villus tissue, RT-qPCR analysis of five ATG genes
revealed significantly higher levels of ATG9A and B, compared to other
genes involved in phagophore initiation (ULK1) and cargo recruitment
(ATG5 and 7). There was no significant difference in expression between
ATG9A and B, suggesting they are both required for compensatory or
independent functions within the placenta. Preliminary data of purified
primary cytotrophoblasts from these placentas revealed that as cells fuse to
form the multinucleated syncytiotrophoblast layer, ATG9B is upregulated
suggesting a role in proper placental development.
Conclusion: Following the momentum of our preliminary data, we plan
to use in situ hybridization experiments to localize these transcripts and
identify which placental cells are more actively undergoing autophagy.
Finally, we will use established placental cell lines to validate the
phenotypes and conduct ATG9 KOs using CRISPR/Cas9 technology
to determine any defects in cell differentiation. Understanding the
mechanisms of how autophagy impairment affects cargo degradation in the
placenta will allow us to better understand the pathogenesis of pregnancy
disorders associated with faulty development and pave a pathway towards
exploring clinical interventions.
F-107
Trophoblast Isocitrate Dehydrogenase-1 Expression is Implicated in
the Pathogenesis of Preeclampsia. Chie-Pein Chen∗, Chen Chia-Yu, Wu
Yi-Hsin. MacKay Memorial Hospital,, Taipei, Taiwan.
Introduction: Preeclampsia is a serious pregnancy complication
associated with placental oxidative stress, impaired trophoblast
migration and abnormal placentation. Reactive oxygen species (ROS)
plays an important role in the development of preeclampsia. Isocitrate
dehydrogenase-1 (IDH1) is an important cellular metabolic enzyme and
is known to reduce ROS production in cells. It is unclear whether IDH1
influences trophoblast functions. We hypothesize that trophoblast IDH1
dysfunction is involved in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia.
Methods: Trophoblast JAR, HTR-8 cells were transfected with scrambled
siRNA or IDH1 siRNA to deplete IDH1 expression. The ROS produced by
trophoblasts was determined by RedoxSensorTM Red CC-1 and analyzed
by flow cytometry. α-ketoglutarate production was evaluated by a coupled
enzyme assay. Cellular NADPH/NADP+ ratio and glutathione level were
analyzed using luminescence-based assay. Placental tissues were collected
from preeclamptic patients (n=15) and gestational age-matched controls
(n=15) after cesarean section.
Results: IDH1 knockdown induced the ROS production in JAR and
HTR-8 trophoblasts. α-ketoglutarate is a rate-determining intermediate
through catalyzing the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate by IDH1 in
cell metabolism and TCA cycle, and has a crucial role in cellular energy
metabolism. IDH1 knockdown reduced the α-ketoglutarate level, NADPH/
NADP+ ratio and glutathione expression in trophoblasts. α-ketoglutarate
increased the proliferation of JAR and HTR-8 cells, but IDH1 silence
decreased the trophoblast proliferation. IDH1 depletion inhibited the
adhesion and migration of trophoblasts. Furthermore, the expression of
IDH1 was significantly reduced in preeclamptic placentas compared to
that of gestational age-matched controls.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 193A
Friday Posters
Conclusion: Dysfunctional IDH1 expression may be implicated in the
preeclampsia development. Our results provide a relevant insight into the
IDH1-mediated mechanism in the development of preeclampsia.
F-108
Elucidating the Effect of Pro- and Anti-Inflammatory Cytokines to
Trophoblast Invasion Using Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell Derived
Trophoblast Stem Cells. Ryuta Miyake, Xie Zhongyang†, Cheung Chu
Virginia, Horii Mariko. University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
CA, United States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is a perinatal complication affecting
2-8% of pregnant women globally. The pathophysiology is thought to
be the failure of spiral artery remodeling due to abnormal extravillous
trophoblasts (EVT) invasion to maternal endometrium. It has been shown
that, in PE patients, interferon‐gamma (IFN-γ), a pro-inflammatory
cytokine, is elevated in serum, and may supress EVT invasion, while
interleukin-10 (IL-10), an anti-inflammatory cytokine, is reduced, and
increased IL-10 may improve EVT invasion in PE. Our group previously
demonstrated that EVT differentiated from PE placenta derived induced
pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) exhibit abnormal EVT formation and
function compared to those from non-PE placenta. Here we investigate the
effect of inflammation on EVT invasion in PE using our patient placenta
derived iPSC model.
Methods: Three PE and three non-PE iPSC derived trophoblast stem
cells (TSC) were used. TSC was differentiated into EVT using protocol
established in the lab. On day 3 of the EVT differentiation, 0 or 25 ng/
ml of IFN-γ or IL10 were added to differentiation media. On day 6,
EVT differentiation was evaluated by flow cytometry for the surface
marker expression and Matrigel invasion assay for the functional impact
of cytokines. For the invasion assay, day 6 EVT was dissociated and
transferred onto Matrigel-coated transwell and cultured for additional
two days. Invaded cells were stained and quantified by imageJ software.
Results: As expected, EVT marker, HLA-G, expression level was
significantly low in PE compared to non-PE derived EVT both at 0 and
25 ng/ml IFN-γ (15.4±4.8% vs. 50.7±13.6%, 24.3±6.2% vs. 64.3±5.9%,
respectively), with slight increase of HLA-G in IFN-γ treated group
(50.7% vs. 64.3%) by flow cytometry. Interestingly, IFN-γ showed
significant suppression of EVT invasion by 60% compared to non-treated
condition in non-PE EVT, but showed no supression in PE-EVT. Finally,
there was no difference in HLA-G expression nor significant effect on
EVT invasion in IL-10 treated groups.
Conclusion: Compared to non-PE iPSC derived EVT, PE-EVT showed
consistently reduced HLA-G expression and invasion, with no further
worsening of cell invasion by IFN-γ, however, IL-10 did not improve
HLA-G expression and invasion. Future study include the evaluation of
gene expression profiles, EVT apoptosis, and measurement of MMP-2
and MMP-9 secretory functions of cells administered with IFN-γ and
IL-10 to elucidate the association between inflammation and trophoblast
cell function in PE.
F-109
International Guidelines on Placenta Accreta Spectrum: Discrepancies
and Gaps. Giulia Bonanni†,1 Maria C. Lopez-Giron†,2 Lisa Allen∗,3
Karin A. Fox∗,4 Robert M. Silver∗,5 Sebastian R. Hobson∗,3 Albaro
J. Nieto-Calvache∗,6 Sally L. Collins∗,7 Miroslaw Wielgos∗,8 Eric
Jauniaux∗,9 Helena C. Bartels∗,10 Loic Sentilhes∗,11 John Kingdom∗,3
Joseph. R. Wax∗,12 Alison G. Cahill∗,13 Alfred Z. Abuhamad∗,14 Diogo
Ayres-de-Campos∗,15 Frederic Chantraine∗,16 Kjersti Aagaard∗,17 Alireza
Shamshirsaz∗,18 Scott A. Shainker∗.19 1Boston Children’s Hospital, Boston,
MA, United States; 2Universidad Icesi, Cali, Colombia; 3University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 4University of Texas Medical Branch,
Galveston, TX, United States; 5University of Utah Health, Salt Lake City,
UT, United States; 6Fundacion Valle de Lili, Cali, Colombia; 7University
of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom; 8National Medical Institute of the
Ministry of Interior and Administration, Warszawa, Poland; 9University
College London, London, United Kingdom; 10National Maternity Hospital,
Dublin, Ireland; 11Bordeaux University Hospital, Bordeaux, France;
12Maine Medical Center, Portland, ME, United States; 13The University
of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, United States; 14Eastern Virginia Medical
School, Norfolk, VA, United States; 15Santa Maria University Hospital,
Lisbon, Portugal; 16Citadelle Hospital, CHU Liege, Liege, Belgium; 17HCA
Texas, Houston, TX, United States; 18Boston Children’s Hospital, HMS,
Boston, MA, United States; 19Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,
Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: We conducted a comprehensive comparative analysis
of published clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) on Placenta Accreta
Spectrum (PAS) from both high-income and low-middle-income countries
(LMICs) to identify consensus and gaps in guidance.
Methods: PAS CPGs (2014-2024) from PubMed, GIN Library, and ECRI
were reviewed. Two reviewers independently extracted recommendations
for antenatal, intrapartum, and postpartum care. A panel of PAS authors
identified consensus and disagreements, and descriptive analysis was
performed.
Results: High agreement was found in several areas of recommendation:
required expertise (100%), antenatal management (88.9%), diagnosis
(76.9%), and epidemiology (75%). Key gaps emerged in cesarean
hysterectomy management (38.5% insufficient evidence, 23%
disagreement), conservative techniques (33.3% insufficient evidence,
11.1% disagreement), fertility counseling, hemorrhage management, and
postnatal care (all with insufficient evidence >30%). Only 1 guideline
(7.7%) addressed LMIC needs, indicating poor representation.
Conclusion: Significant discrepancies and insufficient evidence in PAS
CPGs highlight the need for further research and standardization to
improve patient outcomes, particularly in LMIC settings, where resource
and clinical access limitations preclude compliance with recommendations
from higher resource settings.
F-110
The Regulation of Placental Pericyte Angiogenic Function Through
Transforming Growth Factor b-1 Signalling. Caelan A. MacPhee†,
Bryony V. Natale∗, Sophia Wang†, Curtis Noordhof∗, Patricia Lima∗,
David R.C. Natale∗. Queen’s Univeristy, Kingston, ON, Canada.
Introduction: In the placenta, fetal-derived pericytes wrap the villous
capillaries, directly interacting with endothelial cells to orchestrate
branching angiogenesis. In animal models of preeclampsia (PE), there is a
correlation between reduced pericyte coverage and compromised vascular
branching in the placenta. However, the factors that affect placental
pericyte function are under investigated. Transforming Growth Factor
b-1 (TGFb-1) directly affects brain pericytes, and with an upregulated
TGFb-1 signalling cascade in PE placentas, we speculated there may be
a similar relationship in placental pericytes.
Methods: In the present study, we investigated the in vitro effects of
TGFb-1 signalling on the population dynamics and functional measures
of isolated term human placental pericytes, including angiogenic and
inflammatory secretion, extracellular matrix (ECM) production and
phagocytic capacity.
Results: In a proangiogenic capacity, TGFb-1 treatment increased
proangiogenic (VEGFA) and reduced vessel stabilizing (ANG-1) secretion
194A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
but did not affect their production of ECM components. In an inflammatory
capacity, the secretion of inflammation-associated adhesion molecule
sVCAM-1 and proinflammatory chemokine MCP-1 and phagocytosis in
placental pericytes were attenuated with TGFb-1 treatment.
Conclusion: This study identifies that TGFb-1 signalling can alter
both the angiogenic and inflammatory function of placental pericytes,
suggesting that changes to placental TGFb-1 signalling may contribute
to the pathophysiology of abnormal placental vasculature. Further, these
findings support the possibility that placental pericytes (like pericytes from
other organs) may be mediators of inflammation, a function inhibited by
TGFb-1 signalling. Expanding our understanding of placental pericytes,
these results identify for the first time that placental pericytes phagocytose
and produce ECM components.
F-111
Glucagon Inhibits Trophoblast Secretion of Placental Lactogen In
Vitro. Marjorie A Nguyen,1 Amelia R Tanner,1 Kathryn E Erickson,1
Evgenia Dobrinskikh,1 Russell V Anthony,2 Theresa L Powell,1 Paul J
Rozance∗.1 1University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora,
CO, United States; 2Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, United
States.
Introduction: In many pregnancies complicated by fetal growth restriction
(FGR), circulating maternal placental lactogen (PL) concentrations are
decreased and fetal glucagon concentrations are increased. Studies in
sheep have mechanistically linked these observations by demonstrating
that glucagon infused into the fetal circulation inhibits PL secretion into
the maternal circulation. In order to determine if this relationship exists
in humans, we tested the hypothesis that glucagon would impair secretion
of PL by BeWo and isolated primary human trophoblast cells (PHT).
Methods: Glucagon receptor (GCGR) localization to the microvillous
membrane or basal membrane of the syncytiotrophoblast (STB) was
performed with biochemical fractionation followed by western blotting.
A combination of PHTs with spontaneous syncytialization and BeWo cells
(±forskolin syncytialization) were used to determine the role of glucagon
on PL secretion after confirming the presence of the GCGR by western
blotting. PL (CSH) and chorionic gonadotropin (CG; CGA) mRNA were
measured by real time qPCR. Concentrations of PL and CG in incubation
media were measured by ELISA. Differences were compared with twoway
ANOVAs that included terms for glucagon, time, and their interaction.
Results: GCGR was localized to the fetal facing basal membrane and
was not present in appreciable amount in the maternal facing microvillous
membrane (n=4). GCGR was present in BeWo cells and did not change
with syncytialization (n=3). As expected, in BeWo cells CGA mRNA
(n=3, P<0.0001) increased with syncytialization, but unexpectedly
CSH mRNA decreased (n=3, P<0.0001). Also unexpectedly, media
concentrations of CG and PL decreased with syncytialization (n=6) by
29% (P=0.0480) and 77% (P<0.0001), respectively. Glucagon decreased
CSH mRNA concentrations (P=0.0272) and PL secretion (P=0.0065)
in non-syncytialized BeWo cells (n=3). GCGR was present in PHTs
and did not change with syncytialization (n=4). With syncytialization,
PHT CGA and CSH mRNA and CG secretion increased (P<0.0500). PL
secretion during syncytialization was biphasic with early and late secretion
(P=0.0420). Glucagon inhibited PL secretion (n=6, P=0.0313) in the latter
phase of syncytialization.
Conclusion: The glucagon receptor is present on the fetal facing basal
membrane of human placental syncytiotrophoblast and in BeWo and
PHTs. Glucagon inhibits PL secretion by BeWo and PHT cells, similar to
our previous studies in pregnant sheep. We speculate that this interaction
between fetal glucagon and maternal PL plays an important role linking
fetal metabolism and the fetal endocrine environment to maternal
metabolic adaptions to pregnancy, especially when affected by placental
insufficiency and FGR.
F-112
In Utero Low-Protein Diet Activates Placental Integrated Stress
Response and Mitochondrial Dysfunction Leading to Reduced
Fetal Growth. Vipin Alukkal Vidyadharan†, Chellakkan S Blesson,
Chandrasekhar Yallampalli∗. Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX,
United States.
Introduction: Maternal nutrient availability must align with fetal demand
to support normal fetal growth and development. Disruptions in this
balance lead to impaired fetal growth with potential long-term health
consequences. Recent studies show that maternal protein restriction
triggers the activation of amino acid sensing and signaling pathways,
particularly the Integrated stress response (ISR). ISR activation is
associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in both human and animal
models. However, the role of placental ISR activation and its effects on
placental mitochondria and fetal development is unknown.
Methods: Pregnant Wistar rats were fed either an ad libitum isocaloric
control (20% casein) or an LP diet (6% casein) from day 4 through
embryonic day 20.5 (E20.5). The Placentas and fetuses were collected
and weighed. The expression of genes associated with ISR signaling and
Mitochondrial quality and metabolism were analyzed from the placenta
by qPCR and Western blot.
Results: The in-utero low-protein (LP) diet significantly inhibited
placental growth at embryonic day 20.5 (p<0.02). Additionally, LP fetuses
had significantly lower body weights than controls (p<0.02), indicating
that the LP diet had reduced the development of both the placenta and
the fetus. Gene expression analysis revealed increased levels of GCN2
protein (p<0.02) and heightened phosphorylation of eIF2α (p<0.002) in
the LP placenta, suggesting an ISR. Additionally, the decreased mRNA
expression of PP1C (p<0.003) indicates a prolonged activation of the
ISR. Additionally, the expression of key nutrient transporters, including
amino acid transporters (SLC7A2, SLC6A14, SLC1A5), the glucose
transporter (GLUT1), and fatty acid translocase (CD36), were significantly
reduced in LP placentas, indicating a diminished capacity for placental
nutrient transport. Further, protein levels of key molecules involved in
mitochondrial fusion, including PGC1B, OPA1, and MFN2, were elevated
in the LP placentas, suggesting dysregulated mitochondrial dynamics.
Moreover, the decreased mRNA expression of genes involved in fatty
acid β-oxidation, such as ACC1 and SLC25A20, indicates impaired
mitochondrial β-oxidation in the LP placentas.
Conclusion: Our findings demonstrate that an in-utero LP diet induces
activation of ISR and disrupts mitochondrial dynamics and β-oxidation in
the placenta. These disturbances contribute to impaired placental and fetal
growth, driven by an imbalance between nutrient supply and the metabolic
demands of placental and fetal development. Overall, these results suggest
that the adverse effects of the LP-linked ISR on mitochondrial function
and nutrient transport capacity may underline growth restriction and
compromised development in utero.
F-113
FGR Induced by Maternal Nutrient Restriction in Guinea Pigs
Results in Decreased Placental Apelin in Late Gestation. Kimberley
J. Botting-Lawford,1 Nadia Jowaheer†,1 Gabrielle K Crombie†,1 Ruth
Horler,2 Anthony White,2 Owen R Vaughan,1 Anna L David∗.1 1University
College London, London, United Kingdom; 2Royal Veterinary College,
London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Fetal growth restriction (FGR) occurs in approximately
10% of pregnancies, is predominantly caused by placental insufficiency,
and remains untreatable. Apelin is a secreted peptide expressed in
placental syncytiotrophoblast and associated with placental blood flow,
nutrient transport and maternal cardiovascular adaptation to pregnancy.
Apelin (APLN) mRNA and protein expression is lower in placentas from
women with FGR than appropriate-for-gestational-age pregnancies. We
recently showed that low maternal plasma apelin in the second trimester
is associated with adverse pregnancy outcome in severe, early-onset FGR
(Braun et al. bioRxiv 2024.09.19.613895). Placental expression of the
apelin receptor (APLNR) is not affected by FGR. Guinea pigs are a good
preclinical model of FGR as their haemomono-chorial placenta is similar
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 195A
Friday Posters
to the human haemochorial placenta. We tested the hypothesis that FGR
induced in guinea pigs reduces placental APLN, but not APLNR expression
compared with age-matched control placentas near term.
Methods: FGR was induced by maternal nutrient restriction (MNR; n=9),
whereby dams were fed 70% of ad libitum intake (Controls; C, n=6) from
a month before conception until mid-pregnancy (35d) when the ration
was increased to 90% until term. At 61d placental samples from one male
and one female from each litter (where present; MNR, male n=6, female
n=8; C, male n=5, female n=6) were snap frozen, stored at -80OC and
underwent RT-qPCR for the expression of APLN and APLNR. Two-way
ANOVA for the effect of FGR and fetal sex was performed, with P<0.05
considered statistically significant.
Results: MNR reduced fetal body weight by 29% (MNR; 56.85 ± 2.9; C,
80.8 ± 3.2g, P<0.05), with increased brain weight relative to body weight
observed in MNR males compared to controls (males, MNR 4.3 ± 0.3, C
3.0 ± 0.1 g/100g, P<0.05; females, MNR 3.9 ± 0.2, C 3.8 ± 0.3 g/100g,
P=0.78). MNR did not alter placental weight, but decreased placental
efficiency (MNR 15.3 ± 1.0; C 20.2 ± 1.4 g/g, P<0.05). Regardless of
sex, MNR reduced the mRNA expression of placental APLN by 49%
(MNR 0.28 ± 0.04; C 0.55 ± 0.08, P<0.05), but did not alter the mRNA
expression of APLNR (MNR 0.26 ± 0.05; C 0.28 ± 0.04 g/g P=0.78)
compared to controls.
Conclusion: FGR induced by maternal nutrient restriction in guinea pigs
reduced APLN, but not APLNR, as with placentas from women with earlyonset
FGR. This result adds further evidence that MNR in guinea pigs is
an appropriate model for early-onset FGR and supports the concept that
placental apelin is important for fetal growth.
F-114
Altered Expression and Function of the Immunomodulatory Receptor
CXCR3 Appear to Characterise Spontaneous Preterm Birth. Cara
Michelle Mahon†∗, Dilly Anumba. University of Sheffield, Sheffield,
United Kingdom.
Introduction: CXCR3, an immunomodulatory receptor, has been
implicated in cellular-mediated transplant rejection. It is highly expressed
on effector T cells and is known to coexpress with cytotoxic markers such
as CD8. The expression of CXCR3 on T cells has been associated with
increased incidence of transplant rejection, particularly of renografts
and cardiografts. In 2015, Karjalienen et al. indicated that increased
concentrations of CXCL10 and CXCL9, the canonical ligands of CXCR3,
in amniotic fluid are linked to preterm birth and are also expressed by
placental tissue cells, not only by immune cells present in the placenta. A
mutation of the CXCR3-encoding gene has also been associated with an
increased risk of preterm birth.We hypothesised that increased functional
expression of CXCR3 in the placenta is associated with preterm birth and
that dysregulated activity of CXCR3 and its canonical ligands may be
implicated in the mechanism of spontaneous preterm birth.
Methods: Placentas were collected from five term and five preterm
patients with spontaneous labour in Bangladesh, a country with one of
the highest rates of preterm birth in the world (16%). Placental tissue
was fixed and immunostained for histopathological examination and
immunofluorescence to localise CXCR3. Protein was also extracted and
analysed by Western blot for semi-quantitation of CXCR3 expression.
Data were analysed using the Student T test to compare CXCR3 in term
and preterm placentas.
Results: At a cellular level, immunofluorescence localised the
CXCR3 receptors in villous tissue trophoblast cells, specifically
syncytiotrophoblasts and extravillous trophoblasts, indicating that
dysfunction may occur in those cells. We observed a 2-fold increase of
the expression of CXCR3 in preterm placenta (p=0.018*).To compare
the relative expression levels in syncytiotrophoblasts and extravillous
trophoblasts, mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) was analysed as a ratio.
Relative expression ratios between cell types were similar in preterm
placentae. In contrast, the relative expression of extravillous trophoblasts
was higher than syncytiotrophoblasts in the term placentae. The ratio
of expression in preterm was significantly altered (T=0.46, PT=0.82,
p=0.03*).
Conclusion: CXCR3 is expressed differentially at a functional protein
level in placental trophoblast tissue from preterm placentas compared to
term placentas of women who delivered after spontaneous labour. Further
research will elucidate the functional significance of these observations
in the pathogenesis of preterm labour. Whether the canonical ligands of
CXCR3, CXCL10, 11 and 9 may be potential biomarkers of preterm birth
remains to be determined.
F-115
Coagulation-Inflammation Crosstalk in the Onset and Development of
Placental Abruption. Emmanuella Dwomo Agyei†, Michelle M Castillo,
Kirkwood A Pritchard, Jr, Rashmi Sood∗. Medical College of Wisconsin,
Milwaukee, WI, United States.
Introduction: Placental abruption (PA) is the premature separation of the
placenta from the uterine wall. It is a serious complication that affects 1
to 2% of all births. Maternal thrombophilia, a condition that increases
thrombin generation and the propensity to form blood clots, is a suspected
risk factor for PA. We have shown that mice with thrombophilia due
to a deficiency of Endothelial Protein C Receptor (EPCR) exhibit PA
characterized by mid-gestational vaginal bleeding, blood clots in the
decidua, and fetal growth restriction (PMID 33158859). Decidual clots
show neutrophil infiltration, myeloperoxidase (MPO) release and histone 3
citrullination, suggestive of a key role of Neutrophil extracellular traps in
the progression of abruption. Here, we evaluated the time of disease onset
and tested the hypothesis that neutrophil activation and myeloperoxidasemediated
oxidative damage play key roles in its progression to PA.
Methods: EPCR-deficient dams in C57Bl6 background were mated to
wild type C57Bl6 (WT) mice and were treated with 4mg/kg of depleting
antibodies on 6.5- and 9.5-days post coitum (dpc) or injected daily with
KYC, a bioengineered tripeptide that inhibits MPO’s ability to cause
oxidative damage. The midday of vaginal plug formation was considered
as 0.5 dpc. Uteri were surgically removed, and outcomes were evaluated
by histology, immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry and western blot
analyses.
Results: Decidual blood clots with neutrophils were present as early as
7.5 dpc but MPO release and histone citrullination was only observed
by mid-gestation. Treated EPCR-deficient mice continued to show blood
clots, albeit with significantly fewer neutrophils (~6-fold reduction;
p<0.001). The reduction in neutrophils was accompanied by reduction
of total MPO in the placenta of treated EPCR-deficient mice to levels
observed in WT controls. Notably, the efficiency of neutrophil depletion
was affected by release of new neutrophils from the bone marrow that
expressed significantly reduced Ly6G compared to neutrophils in untreated
WT mice (~3-fold reduction in MFI; p<0.0001). However, despite reduced
neutrophil presence and inhibition of MPO’s expression, treated EPCRdeficient
mice still showed decidual bleeding. We further show that
EPCR-deficient uteri express higher levels of IL-6 which is normalized
with KYC treatment.
Conclusion: Our results suggest that while reduction in neutrophils
and MPO expression/function did not reduce blood clot formation
and progression to placental abruption, some aspects of inflammatory
pathology, such as IL6 expression, were ameliorated. We are currently
testing alternate strategies for improved neutrophil depletion and
for targeting components of the coagulation cascade. Ongoing work
includes spatial transcriptomics studies to identify other components
of coagulation-inflammation crosstalk in thrombophilia-associated PA.
F-116
Investigating the Regulatory Role of N-Glycosylation in Shaping
the Immunological Properties of Extravillous Trophoblast Using
Choriocarcinoma Cell Line JEG-3. Zhengyuan Huang, Mark Johnson∗.
Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: The extravillous trophoblast (EVT) is a trophoblast
subpopulation that closely interacts with decidual immune cells and
plays a role in establishing the feto-maternal tolerance during early
pregnancy. It displays specific phenotypes and N-glycomic profile
(the abundance and composition of N-glycans) that differ from other
196A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
trophoblast subpopulations interacting with maternal peripheral immune
cells. However, little is understood about the link between immunological
properties of EVT and its N-glycomic profile.
Methods: We therefore employed the HLA-G-positive, hCG secreting,
adherent choriocarcinoma cell line JEG-3 as the in vitro EVT model to help
defining the regulatory role of N-glycosylation in shaping immunological
properties of EVT. The N-glycomic profile of JEG-3, along with that of
another choriocarcinoma cell line JAR possessing phenotypes of villous
trophoblast, was remodelled to the predominance of either oligomannose
or hybrid type N-glycans through the inhibition of demannosylation
in N-glycosylation pathway by mannosidase inhibitors kifunensine or
swainsonine.
Results: Both JEG-3 and JAR underwent a dramatic transition in
N-glycomic profile after the inhibition of demannosylation, however a
glycomic compensation was observed as the complete loss of complex
N-glycans was accompanied by increases in several functional glycan
structures. Specially, compared to JAR, JEG-3 had greater increases or
decreases of certain glycan structures such as polylactosamine chains,
α-2,6-sialylation or core α-1,6-fucosylation. Moreover, for JEG-3, only the
predominance of oligomannose type N-glycans resulted in an intracellular
accumulation of unfolded HLA-G fragments, an increased level of hCG
secretion, and reduced levels of EVT markers GATA3 and KRT7, while
JEG-3 predominantly expressing hybrid type N-glycans on cell surface
shared similar phenotypes with the vehicle control. Through in vitro
cytotoxicity assays using cell lines K562 and NK-92, we also observed
that the immunomodulatory effect of JEG-3 on NK-92 can be affected by
its glycomic profile, as NK-92 preconditioned with used culture media
of kifunensine-treated JEG-3 displayed a repressed cytotoxicity to K562,
but this was not applicable to the swainsonine-treated JEG-3 population.
Conclusion: These data suggest that, for JEG-3, there exist immunological
properties tolerative to the glycomic variation within limits, yet the
maintenance of immunological properties is dependent on a specific
glycomic constitution.
F-117
Repeated Chorionic Villus Sampling in Nonhuman Primates is
Feasible, Safe, and Produces Adequate Samples for Histologic Analysis.
Charlotte G Calder†, Kelli Carter, Manal Risheq, Shannon Scarberry,
Joshua Nitsche, Sarah Cilvik∗. Wake Forest University School of Medicine,
Winston-Salem, NC, United States.
Introduction: The placenta is critical in supporting maternal and fetal
health during pregnancy. Placental maldevelopment is a known risk factor
for adverse pregnancy outcomes as well as chronic health conditions into
adulthood. We are limited in our understanding of the timeline of structural
and functional changes in the placenta due to a lack of safe, non-invasive
methods of assessing the placenta throughout gestation in humans. We
aimed to demonstrate the safety of repeated placental sampling and to
visualize the development of the placenta at the site of maternal-fetal
exchange through chorionic villus sampling (CVS) in nonhuman primates.
Methods: We selected 14 female vervets (African Green Monkey;
Chlorocebus aethiops sabeaeus) from the WFUSM Vervet Research
Colony. We performed repeated pregnancy assessments at early (47-56
days), mid (89-106 days), and late (131-147 days) gestation (term=165
days). We performed ultrasound-guided transabdominal CVS at 2 discrete
placental locations using an 18-20G spinal needle attached to 5-10cc
syringe with application of negative pressure. We immediately fixed
samples in 10% neutral buffered formalin, embedded in paraffin, and
H&E stained for histologic analysis.
Results: We successfully collected repeated CVS samples throughout
pregnancy without any fetal demise or maternal complications. All 14
pregnancies resulted in live births. Histologic analysis of vervet placental
villi demonstrated comparable villous structure to human placentas across
all gestational timepoints.
Conclusion: Our results demonstrate that biopsies of placental tissue in
vervets can be performed safely at multiple timepoints during pregnancy
while allowing for pregnancy continuation to term without complications.
This longitudinal sampling will allow us to visualize the progression and
molecular changes involved in chorionic villi development throughout
pregnancy in this important nonhuman primate model. Our ability to
perform repeated CVS in a translationally relevant model will be critical
to understanding the timeline of key events in placental development both
under normal and pathologic conditions.
F-118
Modeling the Impact of Placental Villous Microstructure on Oxygen
Transport Function. Samyuktha S Kolluru,1 Adrienne K Scott,1 Patrick
Yang,1 Ulugbek S Kamilov,1 Anthony O Odibo,2 Michelle L Oyen.3
1Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, MO, United States;
2University of Missouri, Kansas, MO, United States; 3Wayne State
University, Detroit, MI, United States.
Introduction: Pathological complications in the placenta are associated
with changes in tissue microstructure. One such complication is fetal
growth restriction (FGR), characterized by a placenta that fails to supply
adequate oxygen to the fetus. FGR affects approximately 5-10% of all
pregnancies and is a leading cause of stillbirth[1]. Understanding the
fundamental mechanisms underlying FGR is crucial for reducing stillbirth
rates. However, current clinical ultrasound imaging methods fall short
in capturing the microscale structural changes due to poor resolution.
Therefore, the objective is to develop a physics-based model that
elucidates how structural changes impact function by simulating oxygen
diffusion through image-based 3D villous tissue models.
Methods: Under an approved IRB protocol, villous tissue biopsies were
collected after birth from the placenta of both control (N = 18) and FGR
patients (N = 18). Biopsies were optically cleared and imaged using
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) yielding 3D volumes (2x2x1
mm³). MATLAB was used to quantify the villi thickness and the surface
area per volume. An ANOVA was used for statistical comparisons and
p-values were adjusted for multiple comparisons. Solute flux was modeled
using FEBio software. MATLAB was used to calculate the time required
for each element to reach 90% maximum concentration.
Results: Surface area per volume was significantly smaller in FGR
villi(48.9 mm-1 ± 10.3) compared to controls (55.41 mm-1± 9.8) (p < 0.05).
Villi thickness increased in FGR villi, from 38.9 μm ± 5.7 in controls to
42.2 μm ± 3.3 in FGR (p < 0.05). The average time for elements in the
control model to reach 90% maximum concentration was 0.94 seconds,
compared to 1.58 seconds for FGR villous models.
Conclusion: Structural differences are observed between FGR and control
placental villi. Modeling results indicate that the FGR microstructure
takes longer to reach maximum saturation, suggesting delays in the
tissue’s ability to achieve oxygen exchange. Future work will compare
additional FGR and control samples to establish the mechanism linking
microstructure to function in normal and pathological conditions.Work
on this project is supported by Welcome Leap as part of the In Utero
Program.[1] Nardozza, L.M. + Arch. Gynecol. Obstet., 2017
F-119
Adjunctive MRI for Placenta Accreta Spectrum Carries High Costs
without Added Benefit. Karina Hiroshige†, Zoe Lewin†, Timothy Olsen†,
Simran Siddalingaiah†, Courtney Olson-Chen∗. University of Rochester
School of Medicine, Rochester, NY, United States.
Introduction: Placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) presents a significant
risk for maternal morbidity and mortality, necessitating effective prenatal
detection strategies. While ultrasonography (US) is the primary screening
tool, the adjunctive role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is debated.
This study aims to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of US alone versus US
combined with MRI (US+MRI) for PAS screening.
Methods: A retrospective cohort study was conducted on PAS patients
diagnosed via ultrasonography at an academic center in Western NY from
2013 to 2023. Demographics, clinical outcomes, and total inpatient and
outpatient costs were compared between the US and US+MRI groups
using Mann-Whitney U tests, independent t-tests, chi-square tests, and
Fisher exact tests with IBM SPSS.
Results: Seventy-eight patients met the inclusion criteria: 66 (84.6%) in
the US group and 12 (15.4%) in the US+MRI group. The mean maternal
age was 34.1 ± 5.1 years, and the mean gestational age at delivery was
35.6 ± 3.3 weeks. No significant differences were found in demographics
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 197A
Friday Posters
or prior cesarean sections. However, prior curettages were more common
in the US+MRI group (58.3% vs. 32.8%, P=0.022). Clinical outcomes,
including maternal blood loss, postpartum hysterectomy rates, surgical
ICU, and neonatal ICU admissions, showed no significant differences
(P=0.060, 0.117, 1.000, 0.074). The median cost was significantly higher
for the US+MRI group at $16,902.11 (IQR $10,823.64-$21,598.12)
compared to $10,575.16 (IQR $7,600.46-$15,359.55) in the US group
(P=0.020).
Conclusion: Our findings indicate that while US+MRI screening for PAS
results in significantly higher delivery costs, it does not confer additional
clinical benefits compared to US alone. Therefore, routine use of MRI in
PAS screening may lack financial and clinical justification, reinforcing the
primary reliance on ultrasonography for effective prenatal PAS detection.
F-120
Extracellular Vesicles from M1 and M2 Macrophages Elicit Sexually
Dimorphic Responses in the Human Placenta. Paschalia Pantazi,1 Toby
Clements,1 Simrit Sahota,1 Harriet T Parsons,2 Sara Barnett,1 Phillip R
Bennett,1 Karen Forbes,3 Seth Guller,4 Vikki M Abrahams,4 Beth Holder∗.1
1Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom; 2University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; 3University of Leeds, Leeds,
United Kingdom; 4Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: The discovery of placental Extracellular vesicles (EVs)
in the maternal circulation, and their release from placental tissue in
vitro has led to many investigations of their modulation of maternal
cells and tissues. We have previously demonstrated that EV messaging
at the maternal-fetal interface is actually bidirectional, with maternallyderived
EVs also being actively internalized by the placenta. This
mechanism of maternal-placental communication opens the possibility for
functional messaging between the maternal immune system and placental
trophoblast. Here we investigated first trimester placental responses to EVs
from pro-resolution M2 macrophages associated with normal pregnancy,
and from M1 pro-inflammatory macrophages, as a model of inflammation
at the maternal-fetal interface.
Methods: M1 and M2 macrophages were polarized from healthy female
monocytes. EVs were isolated by size exclusion chromatography, and
characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis, ELISA, WB and TEM.
EV miRNA cargo and protein cargo were examined by RNAseq and
quantitative proteomics. EVs were applied to male and female first
trimester explants. Female responses were measured by RNAseq, and
qPCR of transcripts of interest were further examined in male and
female placentae by qPCR. IPA core analysis of placental responses was
performed and overlaid with EV cargo information.
Results: EVs were successfully derived and characterized from M1 and
M2 macrophages. We identified more than 400 unique miRNAs within
EVs from M1 and M2 macrophages, with 72 differentially expressed. We
identified 1,731 proteins in M1/M2 EVs, 132 of which were differentially
expressed. Proteomic data, together with pathway analysis, found that
M1/M2 macrophage EV cargo relate to cellular source, and may play
roles in shaping immune responsesr. We identified distinct differentially
expressed genes in female placentae in response to M1 and M2 EVs,
including genes involved in immune response/inflammation, as well as
general cellular processes. Many of these were sexually dimorphic, with
often no response seen in male placentae. Bioinformatic analysis identified
links between EV cargo and placental responses, including a potential
positive feedback loop involving metallothioneins.
Conclusion: EVs may play a role in initiating or promoting placental
responses to changed macrophage phenotypes at the maternal-fetal
interface in pregnancy pathologies associated with inflammation, and
contribute to sex-dependent differences seen in inflammatory processes
in the placenta.
F-122
Hidden Pollutants: High-Resolution Detection of Microplastics in
Human Placenta, Umbilical Cord, and Peripheral Blood Serum.
Rodrigo B Weingrill∗, Jacob Garcia, Orion Rivers, Men-Jean Lee, Johann
Urschitz. University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI, United States.
Introduction: Microplastics are major environmental pollutants that
permeate ecosystems and pose risks to human health, raising alarms
about their presence in vital tissues like the placenta. However, detecting
and characterizing microplastic particles isolated from liquid biopsies
and tissues is still challenging. Here, we aimed to develop a method for
detecting the plastic polymers in the peripheral blood serum, placental,
and umbilical cord tissues.
Methods: Peripheral blood serum (n=3/1mL each), placental tissue
(n=3/5g each), and umbilical cord tissue (n=3/5g each) were digested in
a glass-filtered 10% KOH solution, for 7 days at room temperature, before
filtered through glass filters (1.6μm pore size). Four 1 cm² sections of each
biopsy filter disk were then analyzed by Scanning Electron Microscopy
with Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy (SEM-EDS) to obtain the
elemental composition of the detected particles. Next, known polymers
obtained commercially (polyethylene (PE), Polypropylene (PP), Polyvinyl
Chloride (PVC), Polystyrene (PS), Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET),
Polyurethane (PU), Polyamide (PA), Polycarbonate (PC), polyvinyl
acetate (PVA) and Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene (ABS)) were treated
either with 10% KOH or left untreated. These samples were then also
analyzed by SEM-EDS and their elemental composition was used as a
reference in the Principle Component Analysis (PCA) used to identify
the unknown particles.
Results: Here, we show the presence of PVC, PP, PA, and ABS in placental
tissues and PE, PET, PC, PVC, and ABS in the umbilical cord. With
very few particles of PU, PC, and PVC in the serum liquid biopsies. We
also observed that the KOH treatment of the known polymers appears to
influence the resulting SEM-EDS spectra, highlighting the importance of
using proper references for the PCA plot.
Conclusion: SEM-EDS is an effective method for identifying microplastic
particles extracted from tissues and liquid biopsies. The presence of
common microplastics in serum, placental, and umbilical cord tissue
samples corroborates the hypothesis that microplastic particles can
cross cellular barriers, including the placental barrier, and potentially
reach the fetus.
F-123
Effect of E-Cigarettes on PTGS2 and Associated Pathways in Sexed
Murine Placentas. Aanvi Somany†, Rennica Huang, Margeaux W.
Marbrey∗. Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC, United
States.
Introduction: Studies indicate up to 15% of pregnant individuals use
electronic nicotinic delivery systems (ENDS) or e-cigarettes, despite
unclear effects on safety. The placenta is sensitive to molecular stimuli
that control nutrient and waste exchange between the mother and baby.
Impaired signaling can lead to preeclampsia, a devastating hypertensive
pregnancy disorder. Proper placental vascularization is regulated by many
proteins including vascular endothelial growth (VEGF) and placental
growth (PGF) factors. Further, the prostaglandin synthase pathway
including prostaglandin synthase 2 (PTGS2) and the aldo-keto reductase
(AKR) family, are involved in the manufacture of prostaglandins, which
control placental function, vascularization, inflammation, and immune
response. PTGS2 upregulation is correlated with oxidative stress,
hypoxia, adverse pregnancy outcomes, and even preeclampsia. However,
the specific impact of ENDS exposure on prostaglandin and angiogenic
pathways remains unknown, particularly in terms of sex differences. This
study investigates the sex-specific influence of ENDS vapor, with and
without nicotine, on prostaglandin and angiogenic pathways in mouse
placentas. We hypothesized that ENDS exposure would misregulate these
pathways in a sex-specific manner.
Methods: Wildtype mice were exposed to ENDS vapors containing
flavoring with and without nicotine according to the Institutional Animal
Care and Use Committee. Mice were mated and exposed for each day
of pregnancy until day 12.5 (n=11). Fetal sex and embryo/placental
198A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
weights were recorded and analyzed using ANOVA with student’s t-test.
mRNA was isolated from placental tissue and sequencing analysis was
performed by the Sequencing and Genomic Technologies Core at Duke
University (n=4). Partek Flow was used to perform alignments, read
quantification, and ANOVA analyses between sex and ENDS groups.
Immunofluorescence and qRT-PCR were used to validate expression
(n=4).
Results: Exposure to ENDS vapors with nicotine caused smaller
embryo/placental weight ratios. Also, the mRNA sequencing results
revealed sex-based responses to ENDS exposure. In female placentas,
Ptgs2 was upregulated in ENDS exposed groups, validated with
immunofluorescence. Akr1 family members were increased overall
compared to males. Vegf genes were upregulated in female placentas,
indicating higher angiogenesis, and did not significantly change in male
placentas. Finally, Pgf was downregulated in males.
Conclusion: These findings underscore the dangers of ENDS on placental
development, implicating prostaglandin and angiogenic pathways
as mediators of these effects. Future research aims to understand the
functional implications of PTGS2 upregulation and examine other
signaling pathway members. These findings will help define the safety
of ENDS and enhance our understanding of sex-specific mechanisms that
drive placental function and development.
F-124
Elevated POGZ Expression in Placental Cell Types: Potential
Contribution to Preeclampsia. Jessy J P, Shivani Shivani, Tooba Tahreem
Khan, Sukanya Sukanya, Amal Razik, Filgy George, Neerja Bhatla, Renu
Dhingra. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
Introduction: POGZ (pogo transposable element-derived protein with
zinc finger domain), a protein that binds to heterochromatin 1α is a part
of zinc finger proteins. It has a cluster of several C2H2-type zinc fingers
interacting with proteins or DNA, one or more short portions known as
zinc finger domains, a centromere protein B-like DNA-binding domain,
and a DDE domain that possibly regulate gene expression. It is believed
that the POGZ protein regulates gene expression, and disruption of
this regulation results in a variety of neurodevelopmental disorders. Its
function in osteosarcoma cell invasion, migration, and proliferation has
been assessed in recent research.The defective trophoblast cell invasion in
the maternal decidua has been proposed to be a contributing factor in the
development of preeclampsia.Preeclampsia is one of the most frequently
reported prenatal complication, affecting 2 to 15% of pregnancies. Two
stage process involving insufficient trophoblast invasion leading to a
shallow placentation and poor uteroplacental perfusion (stage I), followed
by a widespread endothelial dysfunction and leading to systemic clinical
manifestations or organ damage (stage II), is one of the most widely
accepted theories. Preeclampsia has a complex etiology, pathophysiology,
and effect, further research is necessary to understand the primary etiology
and pathophysiology behind the appearance of clinical manifestations and
outcomes. POGZ expression in the cells of placentae with normal and
preeclamptic conditions however has not been investigated, hence this
study aims to evaluate its association in preeclampsia.
Methods: Placentae were collected from pregnancies complicated with
preeclampsia (n=30) and normotensive, non-proteinuric controls (n=30).
Gestational age matched preeclamptic as well as control placentae
were analyzed for POGZ expression by immunohistochemistry and
immunofluorescence and validated by western blot.
Results: Results demonstrated increased POGZ expression in the various
cell types like syncytiotrophoblast, stromal cells and endothelial cells
of preeclamptic placentae as compared to their gestational age matched
controls both in immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence and the
same was quantified by western blot.
Conclusion: Reduced trophoblast invasion, a characteristic feature
of preeclampsia, may be linked to the elevated POGZ expression in
preeclamptic placentae. Further explorations into these mechanisms
could provide important insights into placental development. It might
contribute to the several preeclampsia etiologies and further provide
pregnancy-related therapies and interventions.
F-126
Peripheral Immune Perturbations Precede Future Diagnosis of
Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy. Chelsea Ann DeBolt, Amir
Horowitz, Haocheng Yu, Liqhwa Ncube, Valerie Riis, Michal A Elovitz∗.
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United States.
Introduction: Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) are leading
drivers of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Inflammation
appears to be one of the drivers in the pathogenesis of HDP. Similarly,
obesity is considered a proinflammatory state, and the long-term chronicity
of these proinflammatory signals may impact immune cell function
systemically and at local tissue microenvironments (uterus, placenta).
This study sought to assess if immune perturbations predate the diagnosis
of HDP and is amplified in those with obesity.
Methods: From a prospectively enrolled cohort of Black pregnant
individuals (N=650), peripheral blood was collected in PAXgene tubes at
16-24 weeks’ gestation. Bulk RNA sequencing was performed per standard
methods using validated and appropriate libraries. Gene expression
analysis was conducted using the DESeq2 applying a generalized linear
regression model with the Wald statistical test under the assumption
that underlying gene expression count data follow a negative binomial
distribution. Pathway enrichment analysis was completed following the
standard analytical procedures as described for fastGSEA algorithm
using available databases of gene signatures (MsigDB). Analyses
were compared between those who developed HDP (N=115) using
ACOG definitions and those who delivered at term without obstetric
complications(N=174). Given the suspected interaction between body
mass index (BMI) and immune dysfunction, further analyses were done
stratified by early pregnancy obesity (BMI >/=30).
Results: 289 individuals had available samples for analysis, 39.8%
(N=115) with HDP and 60.2% (N=174) without HDP. Those with HDP
were more likely to be nulliparous (p=0.03), have prior HDP (p<0.001),
deliver at an earlier gestational age (38 weeks vs 39 weeks, p<0.001)
and have a neonate with a lower birthweight (3070g vs 3270g, p<0.001).
Pathway analyses revealed upregulation of MYC target, oxidative
phosphorylation, allograft rejection, and unfolded protein response.
Upregulated genes include CCL2, CCR2, GZMA, PRF1, suggesting
an innate immune response with increased inflammatory signals in
the periphery, early in pregnancy, in those who eventually developed
HDP. Our results were not significantly different when stratifying by 1st
trimester obesity.
Conclusion: In the 2nd trimester of pregnancy, innate immunity appears to
be perturbed in those who eventually develop HDP compared to those who
do not, independent of obesity. These differences may serve as biomarkers
to better identify those at risk for HDP. Additional work investigating the
consequences of these immune perturbations on both systemic (vascular
function) and local immune microenvironment (placenta) will help to
discern the consequentiality of these findings and may serve to provide
new therapeutic strategies.
F-127
Exploring Circulating Proteins Associated with Hypertensive Disorders
of Pregnancy by Proteome-Wide Mendelian Randomization. Xin Wen∗.
Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, China.
Introduction: Hypertensive disorder of pregnancy (HDP) is a group of
disorders in which pregnancy and hypertension coexist. The disease is
one of the leading causes of maternal and perinatal mortality. Of these,
gestational hypertension and preeclampsia account for up to ninety
percent.
Methods: Two outcomes were included in our study, gestational
hypertension and preeclampsia or eclampsia. In the primary analysis, we
respectively tested the effect of expression levels of circulating proteins on
gestational hypertension and preeclampsia or eclampsia using Mendelian
randomization (MR). Genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary
data for these outcomes were obtained from the FinnGen R11 version.
We selected proteins’ quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) data for 2923 unique
proteins from the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP)
(37794186). The UKB-PPP performed proteomic analysis of plasma
samples from 54,306 participants using the Olink platform. To exclude the
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 199A
Friday Posters
interference of linkage disequilibrium and to test whether MR-identified
proteins enjoy the same causal variants as gestational hypertension and
preeclampsia or eclampsia, we performed colocalization analysis.
Results: Our results showed that 8 plasma proteins (FGF5, FURIN,
SH2B3, ACOX1, FES, AXL, MPI and CSF3) were causally associated
with gestational hypertension and 4 plasma proteins (FGF5, SH2B3, EBI3
and CES2) associated with preeclampsia or eclampsia. Subsequently,
evidence of colocalization analysis was observed for four proteins (FGF5,
FURIN, ACOX1 and FES) and gestational hypertension. Similarly, two
proteins (FGF5 and EBI3) and pre-eclampsia were also supported by
evidence of colocalization analysis. We considered the primary targets
common to gestational hypertension and preeclampsia or eclampsia to
be prioritized proteins, and we conducted a phenome-wide MR analysis
to ascertain the potential beneficial or adverse effects of these primary
target proteins on other human diseases. Functional features and biological
pathways associated with key proteins were respectively explored by Gene
Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG)
enrichment analyses for gestational hypertension and preeclampsia or
eclampsia.
Conclusion: This MR analysis identified new circulating proteins that may
be causally associated with HDP. Biomarkers associated with gestational
hypertension and preeclampsia need to be developed for early prediction
and early intervention. It also provided new potential therapeutic targets
for the disease.
F-128
Mass Cytometry Analysis Reveals Altered Memory Regulatory T
Cell Subsets and CD8+ T Cell Effector Populations in Preeclamptic
Women Compared to Healthy Pregnant Controls. Amanda Bowman†,1
Dunia Mangal,1 Maria Teresa Martín Monreal,1 Cristiano Scotta,1,2
Athina Efthymiou,1 Nicoleta Mureanu,1,3 Giovanna Lombrardi,1 Kypros
Nicolaides,1 Rachel Tribe∗,1 Panicos Shangaris∗.1 1King’s College London,
London, United Kingdom; 2Brunel University of London, London, United
Kingdom; 3Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, București,
Romania.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is a pregnancy complication linked
to immune dysregulation, affecting maternal-fetal tolerance. Late-onset
pre-eclampsia (LOPE), occurring after 34 weeks of gestation, involves
altered regulatory and cytotoxic immune responses, particularly in Tregs
and CD8+ T cells. This study explores how immune cell populations differ
between pre-eclamptic and healthy pregnancies, examining the role of
maternal factors like age and BMI in shaping these responses.
Methods: Peripheral blood samples from 11 pregnant women (6 preeclamptic,
5 healthy) at 36 weeks’ gestation were analyzed using flow
cytometry to identify Treg and CD8+ T cell subsets. Maternal demographic
factors such as age, BMI, and ethnicity were recorded. Statistical analysis
compared immune cell distributions between groups. UtA-PI was
measured using Doppler ultrasound, and multiple of the mean (MoM)
values were calculated to assess correlations with immune cell alterations.
Results: Flow cytometry revealed significant differences in Treg and
CD8+ T cell subsets between pre-eclamptic and healthy women. Preeclamptic
women showed a marked increase in CD25+ bright Tregs
(p=0.01) and memory Th2-like Tregs (p=0.01), suggesting a compensatory
anti-inflammatory response, while reductions in memory Tregs (p=0.04)
and CCR4+ memory Tregs (p=0.03) were observed.CD8+ T cells also
increased significantly, particularly CD8+ T cell effectors (p=0.03),
CD8+ T cell effector (CD28-CD27-) (p=0.01), and the EM3 subset
(p=0.01), indicating a pro-inflammatory shift. Maternal age and BMI
were associated with higher cytotoxic CD8+ T cell levels, indicating a
stronger immune response in older women and those with higher BMI.
Higher UtA-PI values were seen in pre-eclamptic women, with MoM
values exceeding diagnostic thresholds. Correlations were observed
between UtA-PI and specific Treg subsets, such as a negative correlation
with memory Tregs (R = -0.72) and a positive correlation with memory
Th2-like Tregs (R = 0.56).
Conclusion: This study shows that late-onset pre-eclampsia (LOPE) is
associated with increased CD25+ bright and memory Th2-like Tregs.
Increased cytotoxic CD8+ T cells may drive placental inflammation
and damage. Elevated uterine artery pulsatility index (UtA-PI) values in
pre-eclamptic women correlated with immune cell alterations, indicating
its potential as a predictive marker for LOPE. Future research should
explore these immune and vascular changes longitudinally and across
broader populations.
F-129
Longitudinal Serum Biomarkers Through 10 Days Postpartum in
Patients with and without Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy.
Jeannette M Larson†, Fernanda B Leyva Jaimes†, Sophia J Beaulieu†,
Natalia Gontarczyk Uczkowski, Amy Godecker, Janine S Rhoades∗,
Aleksandar K Stanic∗, Kara K Hoppe∗. University of Wisconsin Hospitals
& Clinics, Madison, WI, United States.
Introduction: Our objective was to evaluate inflammatory and angiogenic
serum biomarkers before birth and within 10 days postpartum (PP) in
subjects with and without hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP).
Methods: Prospective cohort study of 9 singleton pregnancies delivered
24 to 41+6 weeks gestation with and without HDP conducted from
2020-23 (controls n=5; HDP n=4). Serum samples were collected on
enrollment before delivery, postpartum day (PPD) 2-3 and PPD 5-10.
Serum samples were analyzed using three LEGENDplex panels, run in
duplicate, and read using the Attune NxT flow cytometer. Generated raw
FCS files were analyzed with the LEGENDplex Data Analysis Software
Suite. The average of each duplicate was calculated and used to create box
plots on JMP Pro v17.2.0. Clinical demographics were compared using
Mann-Whitney and Fisher’s exact tests. Repeated measures ANOVAs
were performed comparing the 3 time points, control to HDP samples,
and their interaction.
Results: Of subjects with HDP, 2 had chronic hypertension with
superimposed preeclampsia with severe features (cHTN with SIPE), 1
had gestational HTN, and one patient had preeclampsia without severe
features (PreE). Significant differences between control and HDP groups
were noted for IFN- α2, TSLP, IL-17A, IL-4, GM-CSF, IL-23, IL-15,
IL-1α, and FGF basic; p<0.05 When stratified by diagnosis, patients with
cHTN with SIPE were noted to have persistent elevations of inflammatory
cytokines after delivery compared to other HDP and controls, whereas the
subject with PreE was noted to have decreased inflammatory cytokines
and elevated VEGF.
Conclusion: HDP, which are associated with inflammation antepartum,
are highly associated with PP maternal morbidity where immune deviation
is far less understood. Significant differences in biomarkers between
patients with HDP and controls identified in this study, despite small
sample size, suggest potential targets for further study in the PP period
to determine if these could be predictors of patients at risk of difficult
PP blood pressure control and both immediate and long-term adverse
cardiovascular outcomes.
F-130
Progesterone Reduces Inflammation, Markers of Endothelial
Dysfunction and Blood Pressure in the Preclinical Dahl Salt-Sensitive
Rat Model of Preeclampsia. Christy Lynn Chambers†, Michael Franks,
Nathan Campbell, Raegyn Phillips, Ty Turner, Montianah J. Roseburgh, Jan
Michael Williams, Lorena M. Amaral. University of Mississippi Medical
Center, Jackson, MS, United States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PreE) is characterized by new onset
hypertension after 20 weeks of gestation. It affects 5-7% of all pregnancies
in the U.S.A, and is associated with activated CD4+T cells, inflammation,
autoantibodies to angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1-AA), reduced fetal
weight and hypertension (HTN). Importantly, 30% of HTN disorders in
pregnancy are caused by chronic HTN that is present prior to pregnancy
which increases the risk of superimposed PE (SIPreE). The mechanisms
responsible for the pathogenesis of PreE and SIPreE are unclear and
currently the only treatment is early delivery of the fetal-placental
unit. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that progesterone,
in the form of 17-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17-OHPC), reduces
inflammation and blood pressure in the preclinical Dahl Salt-Sensitive
(Dahl S) rat model of PreE.
200A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Methods: A subset of pregnant control Sprague-Dawley (SD) and
pregnant Dahl S (DS) rats were injected with 17-OHPC (3.32mg/kg)
or vehicle (saline) on day 15 (GD15) of gestation. On GD 18, Uterine
Artery Resistance Index (UARI) was measured by Doppler Ultrasound
and carotid catheters were inserted for mean arterial blood pressure (MAP)
measurement on GD19 and samples were collected. All data are expressed
as mean + standard error means (SEM).
Results: MAP was 105+5 mmHg in SD+ vehicle rats (n=6), 104+4 in
SD+17-OHPC rats (n=6), 136+3 in DS+ saline rats (p <0.05, n=11), which
improved to 125+4 in DS+17-OHPC rats (p <0.05, n=7). Neither placental
weight nor pup weight was affected by 17-OHPC. UARI was 0.5 +0.1 in
SD+ vehicle rats (n=6) and 0.5 +0.1 in in SD+17-OHPC (n=6), 0.7+0.1
in DS+ vehicle rats (n=6, p<0.05), which reduced to 0.5+0.1 in DS+17-
OHPC (n=7, p<0.05). sFlt-1 levels were 46+9 in SD+ saline (n=6), 99+33
pg/mL in SD+17-OHPC (n=4), 197+44 in DS+ saline (n=7) and 66+23
in DS+17-OHPC (n=5, p<0.05). Placental PPET-1 increased 2.0-fold
change in DS+ saline compared to SD+ saline, which as reduced to 1.0
in DS+17-OHPC.TNF-alpha and IL-6 levels (n=4-5/group) were 3.0+1.0,
45+11 pg/mL in SD+ vehicle rats, 11.0+1.2, 78+21 in DS+ vehicle rats,
which reduced to 4.1+1.6 (p<0.05), 62+12 in DS+17-OHPC. Circulating
and placental CD4+ T cells were 9.3+3.7 %, 6.4+ 1.6 % gate in SD+
vehicle rats (n=4), 38.9 +2.9, 33.1+4.3 % gate DS+ Saline rats (n=6),
which significantly reduced to 26.3 + 0.1 %, 3.4+1.2 % gate in DS+17-
OHPC. AT1-AA were -1 + 2 ΔBPM (beats per minute) in SD+ vehicle
rats, 4 + 1 in DS+ Saline rats and -0.6+2 DS+17-OHPC rats (n=5, p<0.05).
Conclusion: Our findings demonstrate that 17-OHPC ameliorates the
maternal syndrome in the preclinical Dahl Salt-Sensitive rat model of
PreE.
F-131
Enhanced Transplacental Antibody Transfer in Early Preterm
Placental Dysfunction. Adva Cahen-Peretz,1 Daniel Victor†,1 Sarah M
Cohen∗,1 Debra Goldman-Wohl∗,1 Michal Kovo∗,2 Tal Biron-Shental∗,2
Hedi Benyamini Raischer†,3 Rinat Gabay∗,4 Michal Neeman∗,5 Yael
Pewzner-Jung∗,5 Simcha Yagel∗,1 Ilana Ariel∗,1 Ofer Mandelboim∗,1 Ofer
Beharier∗.1 1hadassah medical center, Jerusalem, Israel; 2Meir Medical
Center, Kfar Saba, Israel; 3Emek Medical Center, Afula, Israel; 4Hillel
Yaffe Medical Center, Hadera, Israel; 5Weizmann Institute, Rehovot, Israel.
Introduction: Transplacental maternal IgG transfer is crucial for neonatal
immunity. Current data on how placental dysfunction (e.g., fetal growth
restriction and preeclampsia) affects antibody transfer is limited. This
ongoing study examines how such dysfunction alters antibody transfer in
extreme preterm deliveries (before 34 weeks gestation), where pathology
is characterized by ischemia, infarctions, and angiogenic imbalances, with
implications for maternal vaccination strategies.
Methods: A multicenter, prospective cohort study (2021-2024) includes
200 participants from four centers. Early preterm pregnancies with
placental dysfunction (n=30) were compared to gestational-age-matched
controls (n=31). IgG levels against nine pathogens (HBV, pertussis,
diphtheria, tetanus, mumps, influenza, COVID-19, RSV, and CMV) were
measured using multiplex Luminex assays to assess placental antibody
transfer function. Simultaneous assessment of these pathogens provides
a comprehensive evaluation of placental functionality in antibody
transfer. Further analyses will include immunohistochemistry to assess
IgG receptor spatial distribution and expression (FcRn, FcγR2, FcγR3),
possibly revealing receptor upregulation in placental dysfunction cases,
indicating compensatory mechanisms, and single-cell mRNA sequencing
to explore transcriptional differences, to provide insight into the molecular
drivers of this enhanced transfer.
Results: In normal placental function, antibody transfer ratios increase
with gestational age. In early preterm placental dysfunction cases, the
transfer ratio was unexpectedly higher (mean 0.9) compared to controls
(mean 0.6) (p<0.005), with this enhanced transfer consistently observed
across all 9 pathogens studied.
Conclusion: This study reveals unexpectedly efficient transplacental
antibody transfer in early preterm placental dysfunction, despite other
functional impairments. Further planned analyses are expected to reveal
the molecular drivers and potential compensatory mechanisms underlying
this enhanced antibody transfer in placental dysfunction.
Together, these findings highlight the potential benefits of maternal
vaccination strategies for these vulnerable pregnancies.
F-132
Biomarkers of Early Onset and Severity of Hypertensive Disorders
of Pregnancy: An Umbrella Review. Amirhossein Fakhre Yaseri†∗,
Spring Griffin, Neharika Talasila, Nyaw Too, Jessica Delgado, Nandita
Perumal∗. Arnold School of Public Health, University of South Carolina,
Columbia, SC, United States.
Introduction: Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) are a leading
cause of maternal mortality globally; however, the pathophysiology of
HDP remains unclear. We conducted an umbrella review to collate the
evidence on the biomarkers associated with the early onset and severity
of HDP.
Methods: A PRISMA-guided search was conducted in PubMed,
EMBASE, CINAHL, and Web of Science (WOS) up to April 2024
without language restrictions. Systematic reviews and/or meta-analyses
of associations between any biomarkers in pregnancy and risk of any HDP
were included. Studies that focused exclusively on interventions, imaging
markers alone, diagnostic accuracy of biomarkers, or genetic markers
were excluded from this analysis. Study quality was evaluated using
AMSTAR 2 and the review protocol was registered in the PROSPERO
database (ID: CRD42024515952).
Results: Of the 3,154 titles and abstracts screened, 72 reviews were
included. The majority of the reviews (65/72) focused on preeclampsia
(PE). Case-control studies were most common (60/72 reviews), followed
by cohort studies (40/72). Studies from Europe and Central Asia were most
represented across reviews (43/72), followed by studies from East Asia and
Pacific (included in 38/72 reviews) and from North America. Few reviews
included primary studies from South Asia (23/72), Latin America and the
Caribbean (15/72), and Sub-Saharan Africa (12/72). Only 12/72 reviews
(17%) examined associations between biomarkers of early-onset and/
or severe PE. There was substantial heterogeneity in definitions of early
onset PE (ranging from: < 18, 18-25, and < 34 weeks, or first or second
trimesters). Angiogenic biomarkers (e.g., pregnancy-associated plasma
protein A, soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1, placental protein 13, soluble
endoglin, and placental growth factor) were consistently associated with
early-onset PE. Whereas inflammatory markers (e.g., malondialdehyde,
nitric oxide, glutathione peroxidase, and catalase tumor necrosis factoralpha,
interleukin-6, and chemerin) and markers of oxidative stress
(e.g., malondialdehyde, nitric oxide, glutathione peroxidase, catalase,
neutrophil-to-lymphocyte, and platelet-to-lymphocyte) were most
consistently associated with severe PE across reviews.
Conclusion: Despite substantial evidence on the associations between
biomarkers and incidence of HDP, there is limited evidence of these
associations to discern early-onset and severity of disease to support
clinical decision-making. Further evidence in diverse populations,
particularly from Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, and South Asia,
are needed.
F-133
Implementation of a Standardized Protocol for Postpartum
Hypertension Follow-Up. Sonya Fabricant†, Ojiugo Onwumere†, Tracy
Carter, Manvir Sohal∗, Natalie Bello∗, Emily Seet∗, Sarah Kilpatrick∗,
Mariam Naqvi∗. Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, United
States.
Introduction: Our objective was to standardize postpartum follow-up for
patients with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy who delivered at a high
volume hospital served by multiple obstetric groups, and were discharged
on antihypertensive medication. This study describes development and
outcomes of this novel protocol over two plan-do-study-act (PDSA)
cycles.
Methods: This was a quality improvement initiative implemented at a
quaternary hospital over a 6 month period (1/2024-6/2024). Maternal-Fetal
Medicine, Cardiology, a clinical pharmacist, nursing and administrative
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 201A
Friday Posters
leadership collaborated on protocol design. Protocol steps included: (1)
universal home blood pressure monitoring for eligible patients, (2) virtual
antihypertensive titration over 14 days from delivery discharge, and (3)
transition of care to a longitudinal provider (primary care or cardiology)
for optimization of cardiometabolic risk factors. Key modifications after
each PDSA cycle are described. Our primary outcome was blood pressure
follow-up within 7 days of discharge. Our secondary outcomes were blood
pressure follow-up within 14 days and follow-up with a longitudinal
provider by 6 weeks of discharge.
Results: Our protocol was introduced at an institutional level on January
18, 2024. Modifications after PDSA Cycle 1 were (1) incorporating a
perinatal RN to review blood pressures, (2) adding HIPAA-compliant
messaging to screen blood pressures and (3) creating a streamlined referral
process to Internal Medicine for longitudinal follow-up. Modifications
after PDSA Cycle 2 were (1) development/distribution of patient education
materials, (2) RN education on discharge blood pressure teaching and
(3) Obstetrician education about the protocol. During the study period
67 patients were enrolled. Fifty-six (84%) had blood pressure follow-up
within 7 days of discharge and 63 (94%) had follow-up within 14 days.
Median time to initial follow-up was 3.7 ± 2.1 days. After PDSA Cycle 1,
>90% of patients had blood pressure follow-up within 14 days. Twentynine
(43%) patients had confirmed follow-up with a longitudinal provider
by 6 weeks from delivery discharge.
Conclusion: We implemented a standardized protocol for postpartum
hypertension follow-up at a quaternary medical center. This program
achieved a follow-up rate of 84% within the first week postpartum. Our
protocol can be a model for institutions working to improve postpartum
follow-up for patients with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.
F-134
Investigations into the Brain Transcriptome and Neuroinflammation
in the Reduced Uterine Perfusion Pressure Model of Preeclampsia.
Valentina Bucher†,1 Owen T. Herrock†,1 Catherine Cluver,2,3 Joakim Ek∗,1
Lina Bergman∗.1,2,4 1University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden;
2Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa; 3University of
Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia; 4Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
Introduction: Pre-eclampsia is one of the leading causes for both
maternal morbidity and mortality. Cerebral complications secondary
to preeclampsia like eclampsia are among the most common causes of
direct maternal mortality. The pathophysiological mechanisms behind the
cerebral complications are unknown but neuroinflammation is thought to
play a pivotal role. An improved understanding of the pathophysiology
could lead to development of more efficient neuroprotective treatment
and better short- and long-term prognosis for these women.
Methods: In preeclampsia, placental ischemia precedes the development
of maternal hypertension and other organ complications. In this study,
the preclinical reduced uterine perfusion pressure (RUPP) rat model
has been utilized to recapitulate the cerebral complications during
preeclampsia. To investigate a broad scope of mechanisms, we analyzed
RNA sequencing of the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum. To
investigate neuroinflammation, we analyzed inflammatory cytokines from
the same brain regions using a multiplex immunoassay.
Results: The mean arterial pressure was significantly increased in the
RUPP study group compared to sham animals confirming a preeclampsialike
phenotype. RNA sequencing revealed changes in pathways associated
with epilepsy and other neurodegenerative diseases, most prominently in
cortex, but also striatum. The multiplex cytokine analysis revealed trends
of increased concentrations of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines
predominantly in hippocampus. However, these changes were nonsignificant.
Conclusion: RUPP animals demonstrate signs of cerebral disruption
similar to epilepsy and neurodegenerative diseases in cortex. These
changes may be influenced by neuroinflammation, but not solely driven
by inflammatory mediators in this model. The changes of inflammatory
mediators in the brain of the model are subliminal reflecting the clinical
presentation of preeclampsia. Future analyses of neurological damage
in this model include histological analysis of inflammation, markers of
neuronal distress, and cell death to identify mechanisms of neuronal injury
as potential targets for neuroprotective treatment.
F-135
The Impact of Age on Endometrial Thickness in Frozen Embryo
Transfer Cycles: A SART CORS Study. Kristin Blackledge†, Patricia
Greenberg, Nataki C. Douglas, Peter G. McGovern, Sara S. Morelli, Anat
Chemerinski∗. Rutgers Health, Newark, NJ, United States.
Introduction: Female age is known to affect the success of assisted
reproductive technology (ART) treatment. The decline in oocyte quality
and quantity is well-established; less attention has been paid to endometrial
aging. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of age on endometrial
thickness (EMT) and clinical pregnancy rates in frozen embryo transfer
(FET) cycles.
Methods: This retrospective study assessed EMT in FET cycles
(n=120,578) reported to SART between 2016-2020. Young (age <35) and
older (age ≥35) women were compared. To isolate the effect of age on
EMT, young nonidentified oocyte donor (NOD) recipients were compared
to older NOD recipients; young and older gestational carriers (GCs) served
as respective controls for the effects of infertility. In GC cycles, only
preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidy (PGT A)-tested embryos
were included. Chi-Square, Fisher Exact, ANOVA, or Kruskal-Wallis
tests were used to compare measures across the four study groups. Posthoc,
Bonferroni adjusted pairwise comparisons were also run to identify
significantly different outcomes (p < 0.05).
Results: There was a statistically significant difference in EMT between
young and older GCs (10.2 vs. 10.4 mm, p<0.001) but not between young
and older NOD recipients (9.7 vs. 9.7 mm, p=0.081). The highest cycle
cancellation rates were seen in GC cycles (9.1 and 7.7% for those <35 and
≥35, respectively) compared with NOD recipient cycles (5.4 and 7.0%
for those <35 and ≥35, respectively). The most common reason for cycle
cancellation was inadequate endometrial response. In logistic regression
models stratified by GC status, there was a decrease in clinical pregnancy
rate (CPR) with increasing age in GC (OR 0.98, 95% CI 0.97, 0.99) and
non-GC cycles (OR 0.98, 95% CI 0.98, 0.99). There was also a decrease
in live birth rate (LBR) with increasing age in GC (OR 0.98, 95% CI 0.97,
0.99) and non-GC cycles (OR 0.98, 95% CI 0.97, 0.98).
Conclusion: Despite minimal age-related effects on endometrial thickness
(<1 mm), a significant decline in CPR and LBR is noted with age. The
age-related decline in pregnancy rates in GCs and NOD recipients, which
are groups in which uterine factor infertility is not typically implicated,
suggests an important role for uterine aging in the success of IVF.
Our novel findings support the importance of further research into the
mechanisms of the uterine aging phenomenon.
F-136
Patients with Adenomyosis Have Lower Live Birth and Higher
Miscarriage Rates After In-Vitro Fertilization When Compared
to Controls. Kaleb Noruzi†,1 Adi Steinhart†,1 Sarah Rubin†,1 Shmuel
Sashitzky†,1 Martin Keltz∗.1,2 1New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY,
United States; 2WestMed Reproductive Services, Purchase, NY, United
States.
Introduction: Adenomyosis is associated with infertility and poor invitro
fertilization (IVF) outcomes. Adenomyosis can extend into the
uterine cavity in the form of a cyst or adenomyoma and may be resected
hysteroscopically. To our knowledge, there have been no studies that have
examined the effect of uterine cavity volume or hysteroscopic surgery on
IVF outcomes in patients with adenomyosis.
Methods: A single-institution-surgeon, retrospective case-control study
of all IVF cycles between January 2016 and December 2023. Cases
included all patients with adenomyosis who underwent embryo transfer
(ET). Cases were grouped by cavity volume approximated as a prolate
ellipsoid using dimensions measured on saline infusion sonogram (SIS),
focal versus diffuse lesions, and the presence of intracavitary lesions
resected hysteroscopically. Controls included all patients who underwent
ET and had a normal uterus on transvaginal ultrasound (US), 3D US,
SIS, and 3D SIS. The primary outcome is live birth rate (LBR) per cycle.
202A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Secondary outcomes are miscarriage rate (MR) and cumulative LBR
(CLBR). Data analysis was performed using R software including t-test,
chi-square test, logistic regression with age adjustment, and ROC analysis
of cavity volume and LBR.
Results: There were 66 patients (131 cycles) with adenomyosis and
238 patients (417 cycles) in the control group. The adenomyosis group
was older (38.5±4.20 vs. 36.2±4.36, p=0.0002) with more miscarriages
(0.76±0.99 vs. 0.49±0.84, p=0.03), lower AMH (1.69±1.31 vs. 3.01±3.57,
p=0.01), and more Black and Hispanic patients (58.6% vs. 34.7%,
p=0.002). LBR (25.2% vs. 48.2%, p=0.00001; OR 0.44, p=0.0003) and
CLBR (43.9% vs. 70.2%, p=0.0001; OR 0.41, p=0.003) were lower and
MR (28.3% vs. 13.7%, p=0.026; OR 2.2, p=0.045) was higher in the
adenomyosis group. In cycles with euploid SET, the same trends were seen
with LBR (32.9% vs. 50.8%, p=0.02) and MR (24.2% vs. 10.1%, p=0.04).
ROC analysis identified a cavity volume threshold of 4cc over which LBR
was reduced in the adenomyosis group. Patients with adenomyosis and
cavity volume greater than 4cc had lower CLBR than those with smaller
cavities (31.9% vs. 73.7%, p=0.003). Patients with diffuse adenomyosis
had lower CLBR than those with focal lesions (26.5% vs. 62.5%, p=0.006).
After resection of focal cavitary adenomyosis, patients had lower MR than
those with focal adenomyosis without cavitary involvement (7.1% vs.
44.4%, p=0.04) and no significant difference in LBR (37.1% vs. 48.2%,
p=0.3) or CLBR (66.7% vs. 70.2%, p=0.8) compared to controls.
Conclusion: Adenomyosis is associated with poor IVF-ET outcomes,
most notably when the uterine cavity is enlarged or lesions are diffuse.
Resection of focal cavitary lesions leads to outcomes more similar to
controls without uterine defects.
F-137
PGT-A Markedly Improves Live Birth Rates While Lowering
Miscarriage and Twin Birth Rates for All IVF Cycles and Age Groups,
Including in Women under 35. Rachel Stern†,1 Shmuel Sashitzky†,1
Moses Bibi†,2 Alexis Greene∗,3 Martin Keltz∗.1 1New York Medical College,
Valhalla, NY, United States; 2NYU Langone, New York, NY, United States;
3Westmed Medical Group, Purchase, NY, United States.
Introduction: Preimplantation Genetic Testing for aneuploidy (PGT-A)
has been increasingly utilized for in vitro fertilization (IVF). However,
while prior studies have shown improved IVF outcomes with PGT-A
in women over 35, nearly all previous data has suggested that there
is no benefit to PGT-A in women under 35 years old. Our aim was to
assess whether PGT-A enhances live birth rates (LBR) while lowering
miscarriage rates (MR) and twin rates regardless of age groups, with a
focus on whether patients under 35 would not experience the benefits of
PGT-A due to much lower rates of aneuploidy per blastocyst.
Methods: This study included all embryos transferred in one IVF center
between March 2015 and November 2023. There were a total of 1,738
transfer cycles, including 1,174 tested embryo cycle transfers and 564
untested embryo transfer cycles. Chi square was used to calculate all data.
Tested embryos included all biopsied embryos; euploid, mosaic, or no
result that were transferred. LBR, MR, twin LBR, and percent of double
embryo transfer (DET) cycles were calculated for all cycles. Our primary
outcome was LBR per embryo as that more closely predicts the benefit
of PGT-A and single embryo transfer (SET) in reducing twin pregnancy
without reducing LBR.
Results: Clinical pregnancy rate (CPR) was significantly higher with
tested embryos for all ages (58.6% vs 50.9% p<0.01), despite a far
higher eSET among tested embryos, (94% vs 57%, p<0.001). Despite
this far higher rate of DET in untested embryos, the miscarriage rate was
still lower among tested embryo transfer cycles, (9% vs 20%, p<0.001);
while the twin birth rate was far higher among untested cycles, (15% vs
3%, p<0.001). These data resulted in a far higher LBR for tested embryo
cycles of ( 53% vs 40%, p<0.001) and an even higher LBR/embryo of
(52% vs 31%, p<0.001). When limited to patients under 35 years old, CPR
was not significantly different (63% in tested vs 60% untested, p=0.48),
while eSET was still far higher among tested embryos, (96% vs 74%,
p<0.001). Again, despite the far higher rate of DET in untested embryos
in patients under 35 (16% vs 2%, p<0.001), the miscarriage rate was lower
for tested embryo cycles, (10% vs 17%, p=0.035). These data in women
under 35 resulted in a higher LBR per cycle among tested embryos (57%
vs 48%, p=0.037) and a far higher LBR per embryo transferred (56% vs
44%, p=0.002).
Conclusion: Utilizing PGT-A results in a markedly increased LBR per
embryo for all age groups, including in women under 35. Despite a
significantly higher rate of DETs with untested embryos, which led to a
greater twin LBR among all women as well as those under 35, PGT-A
still reduced the MR across all age groups, including in women under
35. This is the first data set to document a clear benefit for PGT-A for
women under 35 years old.
F-138
Outlining the Molecular Mechanism Between the Intracrinology of
Endometrial Estrone Levels and Stress. Diana Marti-Garcia†,1 Pilar
Dolz,2 Patricia Sebastian-Leon,1 Maria del Carmen Vidal,2 Almudena
Devesa-Peiro,1 Eva Perez,2 Laura Caracena,2 Marcos Meseguer,2 Estrella
Dura-Ferrandis,3 Patricia Diaz-Gimeno∗.1 1IVIRMA Global Research
Alliance, IVI Foundation, IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2IVI Valencia,
Valencia, Spain; 3University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: Although it is well stablished that IVF treatments induce
stress, this factor is often neglected in clinical practice due to challenges in
assessment and lack of accurate biomarkers. Estrone is a steroid hormone
key in reproductive function and closely related to the well-known stress
biomarker cortisol. This study aims to test the hypothesis that stress alters
endometrial estrone levels directly impacting endometrial gene expression.
Methods: Mid-secretory phase endometrial biopsies were collected from
79 IVF patients <45 years old who underwent psychological evaluation
using State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), evaluating both acute
(State) and long term (Trait) stress. Endometrial estrone concentrations
were measured using UPLC-MS/MS. RNA Sequencing was performed
following the AmpliSeq for Illumina® Transcriptome Human Gene
Expression Panel protocol. Endometrial estrone levels were compared
between stressed (STAI >60) and unstressed (STAI <60) patients using
Wilcoxon test. Correlations were evaluated using Pearson’s correlation
coefficient. Gene expression analysis was performed using maSigPro R
package and the significantly altered genes were functionally annotated.
Results: For short-term stress (STAI State punctuations), stressed patients
exhibited higher median endometrial estrone levels (47 ng/g, n=23) than
unstressed ones (39 ng/g, n=35; p=0.048). Conversely, for long-term stress
(STAI Trait punctuations), stressed patients had lower median estrone
levels (38 ng/g, n=11) than unstressed ones (43 ng/g, n=47; p=0.05). A
positive correlation was observed between estrone levels and short-term
stress (correlation coefficient=0.874), while a negative correlation was
found with long-term stress (correlation coefficient=-0.909). Additionally,
501 genes showed significant changes (p≤0.001) in expression with
increases in estrone levels, with 217 genes increasing and 284 genes
decreasing their expression. Notably these genes were involved in steroid
hormones metabolism and synthesis, GnRH signaling pathway, and stress
response, among others.
Conclusion: This study provides novel insights into the role of estrone as
a modulator of the endometrial stress response, revealing the molecular
mechanisms underpinning this relationship. The opposing trends in the
correlation between endometrial estrone levels and both short-term and
long-term stress, as well as the associated changes in gene expression,
suggest that estrone plays a crucial role in intracrine regulation and
stress response within the endometrium, positioning it as a potential
stress biomarker.
F-139
Avoidance of Weekend Oocyte Retrievals Does Not Adversely Affect
Retrieval Outcomes. Jiahui Zhang†, Lucia Brown, Amanda N. Kallen,
Navid Esfandiari. University of Vermont Larner College of Medicine,
Burlington, VT, United States.
Introduction: Patients’ responses to controlled ovarian stimulation during
ART cycles can vary in terms to duration of stimulation. Practices such
as batching cycles or delaying trigger administration to avoid weekend
retrievals have the potential to alter ART cycle outcomes. While previous
studies have examined ART cycle outcomes following weekday versus
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 203A
Friday Posters
weekend oocyte retrievals, few have compared outcomes from cycles
where oocyte retrieval occurs on a weekend-adjacent day (e.g. as a
result of advancing or delaying the trigger date) as compared to midweek
oocyte retrievals. The objective of this study is to analyze oocyte
maturity and fertilization rates following oocyte retrievals occurring on
a weekend-adjacent day as compared to those that occur midweek. We
hypothesized that different oocyte maturity and fertilization rates would
be observed after weekend-adjacent oocyte retrievals as compared to
midweek retrievals as a result of early or postponed trigger to avoid
weekend retrievals.
Methods: This is a single-center retrospective cohort study of 130 patients
who underwent oocyte retrieval for either oocyte cryopreservation or in
vitro fertilization (IVF) from January 2023 to October 2024. Patients
were assigned to Monday/Friday (M/F) or midweek (T/W/Th) groups
based on their oocyte retrieval date. Age, AMH, and cycle characteristics
(stimulation protocol, length of stimulation) in both groups were
compared. The primary outcome was oocyte maturity (# mature oocytes /
# retrieved oocytes). Fertilization rate (# 2PN zygotes / # mature oocytes)
among patients undergoing IVF was a secondary outcome. Statistical
analysis was performed using two-sample t-test or Chi square test as
appropriate.
Results: Among 53 patients in the M/F group and 77 in the T/W/Th
group, there were no significant differences in patient age, AMH, and
cycle characteristics. Oocyte maturity rates were not significantly different
between M/F and T/W/Th groups (91.6% in M/F group vs 92.0% in T/W/
Th group, p=0.41). Among patients undergoing IVF, no difference in
normal fertilization rate was observed between M/F and T/W/Th groups
(65.5% in M/F group vs 63.9% in T/W/Th group, p=0.38).
Conclusion: No differences in oocyte maturity rate or fertilization rate was
observed among cycles for which oocyte retrieval occurred on weekendadjacent
days (e.g. Monday or Friday) as compared to midweek days. Our
results suggest that, when necessary, weekend oocyte retrievals may be
reasonably avoided without compromising oocyte retrieval outcomes.
F-140
Role of the Ovarian Immune Environment in Polycystic Ovarian
Syndrome. Andrea Killian Wegrzynowicz†, Soma Banerjee†, Fernanda
Leyva Jaimes, Laura Cooney, Aleksandar K Stanic∗. University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, United States.
Introduction: Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is both a reproductive
and inflammatory condition. PCOS is associated with elevated systemic
inflammatory markers and is often comorbid with obesity. Despite the
impact of PCOS on the ovary, there has been minimal investigation into
differences between systemic inflammation and inflammation in the
ovarian microenvironment. We hypothesize that the follicular immunome
is distinct from the systemic immunome and that inflammatory mediators
in follicular fluid are elevated in PCOS patients. Here, we apply a
multifaceted approach to identify characteristic inflammatory markers
and immune cell populations in PCOS patients.
Methods: Peripheral blood and follicular fluid from PCOS patients
(Rotterdam criteria) and control patients (seeking IVF due to genetic,
structural, or male-factor issues) were collected at transvaginal oocyte
retrieval. Mononuclear cells (MCs) and plasma/fluid were isolated.
Cytokine levels in plasma/follicular fluid were evaluated using cytometric
bead analysis (LEGENDPlex). For flow cytometry, peripheral blood
(PBMCs) and follicular fluid MCs (FFMCs) were stained with lineage
specific antibodies, acquired using the Cytek Aurora spectral cytometry,
and analyzed in FlowJo. For single cell transcriptomic coupled with
proteomic analysis (CITE-seq), MCs were labeled with 34 oligoconjugated
antibodies, and scRNAseq was performed using the 10x
Genomics Chromium platform and NovaSeq X. CITE-seq data set were
processed with our established pipelines (Chasman et al, JI 2023). Clusters
were manually annotated based on lineage-defining surface protein and
transcript expression.
Results: PCOS patients had a greater proportion of adaptive helper
cytokines (IL-6, IL-9, IL-10) in plasma (p < 0.05). Immunophenotyping
of PBMCs and FFMCs found that the two compartments differed from
each other in both PCOS and control patients. Pseudobulk single cell
gene expression analysis also found differentially expressed (DE) genes
in PBMCs compared with FFMCs, and both tissues were distinct in
PCOS versus control patients. This supports our hypothesis that the
ovarian immunome is unique and should be considered separately from
circulation and that both compartments have transcriptional alterations
in PCOS. Further analysis of FFMCs found an increase in monocytes
(p < 0.05) and CLA4+ T-regs (p = 0.055) in PCOS patients compared
to controls. Interestingly, we found that several HLA genes and xcr1
(chemokine receptor) were upregulated in FFMCs of PCOS patients (p
< 0.05, Bonferroni corrected).
Conclusion: We found higher levels of key inflammatory markers and
cell types in the follicular compartment of PCOS patients compared to
controls. This highlights that the ovarian immunome does not merely
mirror the systemic counterpart, should be evaluated directly and points
to differential follicular immune programming in PCOS.
F-141
Understanding Pain in Women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome:
Health Risks and Treatment Effectiveness. Stephanie Mohammed†,1
Tess Cherlin†,1 Sasha Ottey∗,2 Katherine Shefif∗,3 Shefali Setia Verma∗.1
1University of Pennsylvnia, PA, PA, United States; 2PCOS Challenge
Inc, PCOS Challenge, GA, United States; 3Thomas Jefferson University,
Philadelphia, PA, United States.
Introduction: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affects approximately
8-13% of women of reproductive age. Assessment of PCOS encompasses
a multifaceted approach. However, abdominal pain, dysmenorrhea, and
pelvic discomfort constitute significant aspects of PCOS and are often
overlooked. The objective of this research is to retrospectively analyze
Electronic Health Record (EHR) data to assess pain reported by women
with PCOS and to determine associations with other adverse health
outcomes.
Methods: We leveraged the TriNetX Global Network which contains
diagnosis information for 75,281,311 females across 119 Health Care
Organizations (HCOs) worldwide. We calculated the prevalence of pain
for females with PCOS, both overall and stratified for self-reported race
and ethnicity. Then, we calculated the relative risk (RR) of adverse health
outcomes among females with PCOS alone, PCOS with pain, and PCOS
with pain and medication prescriptions. PCOS cases included women
with at least one PCOS diagnosis or irregular menstruation and hirsutism,
or irregular menstruation and androgen excess. Pain cases were defined
as females with at least one diagnosis of abdominal and pelvic pain or
dysmenorrhea. Controls were defined as females without these diagnoses
or prescriptions. Females with endometriosis, uterine fibroids, uterine
polyps, or pelvic inflammation were excluded from the analyses.
Results: For participants with PCOS, the prevalence of pain was 28.7%.
Pain prevalence varied across race and ethnicity, with the highest rates
observed among: Other, Black or African American, and Native Hawaiian
or Pacific Islander (35%, 30%, and 29% respectively), while Hispanic
or Latino participants had the highest ethnicity-stratified prevalence
(35%). Participants with PCOS had a 5.8-fold and 1.5-fold increased RR
for infertility and ovarian cysts respectively. Additionally, they showed
increased RR for mental and behavioral health disorders, type 2 diabetes
(T2D), obesity, and diseases of the circulatory system. Individuals with
PCOS and pain had increased RR for adverse health outcomes including
mental and behavioral health disorders (6.1x RR) and ovarian cysts
(4.2x RR). Finally, we observed that the subsets of PCOS and pain
participants who were prescribed systemic contraceptives, metformin,
or spironolactone showed significantly elevated risk for future adverse
health outcomes.
Conclusion: This study highlights the significant burden of pain among
women with PCOS, as an aspect unrecognized in clinical assessment.
Moreover, the presence of pain (abdominal and pelvic or dysmenorrhea)
is associated with a substantially increased risk for various adverse health
outcomes.
204A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
F-142
Human Reproductive Aging is Associated with Focal Increases in
Ovarian Stiffness. Emily Zaniker†,1 Tomiris Atazhanova,1 Lydia Hughes,1
Man Zhang,2 Alexis Trofimchuk,1 Elnur Babayev∗,1 Francesca Duncan∗.1
1Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, United States; 2University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States.
Introduction: The human ovary is composed of ovarian follicles
surrounded by a heterogenous stroma containing cellular and
extracellular matrix components. As the mammalian ovary ages, there is
a decrease in gamete quantity and quality as well an increase in stromal
fibroinflammatory changes leading to a biomechanically stiffer organ.
Therefore, human ovarian stiffness may be a biomarker of ovarian aging.
Shear wave elastography (SWE) is an established technique used to study
tissue stiffness in the liver, muscle, and malignant lesions. The goal of this
pilot prospective cohort study was to use SWE to measure human ovarian
stiffness and determine its correlation with age and reproductive outcomes.
Methods: We generated a standard operating procedure to reliably
quantify human ovarian stiffness using transvaginal ultrasonography
with SWE. SWE measurements were obtained in high-confidence regions
(3-12 regions/ovary) using the GE Logic Fortis ultrasound system at the
time of routine diagnostic ultrasounds. For each participant, we collected
additional data, including age, body mass index (BMI), antral follicle count
(AFC), levels of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and anti-Mullerian
hormone (AMH), and fertility-related diagnoses.
Results: To date, SWE measurements have been obtained from 38
participants ranging from 24 to 47 years of age (mean 34.5 ± 4.9 years).
Key ovarian reserve markers (AMH, AFC, FSH) exhibited expected
correlations based on the general population. Our results demonstrated
that the mean stiffness of the human ovary does not directly increase with
advanced reproductive age. Univariate analysis found no association
between age and average stiffness, but did reveal a significant correlation
between age and the coefficient of variation of stiffness measurements (r =
0.35, p = 0.03). To further assess if aging was associated with focal rather
than global increases in tissue stiffness, we recorded maximum stiffness
and elastic heterogeneity (a modified range calculated as the average of
the largest three measurements minus the average of the smallest three
measurements). Univariate analyses revealed positive trends between age
and maximum stiffness (r = 0.31, p = 0.06) and a significant correlation
between age and elastic heterogeneity (r = 0.35, p = 0.03).
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that there is an association between
higher maximum stiffness and increased heterogeneity of stiffness
measurements and age. Studies are ongoing to correlate ovarian stiffness
measurements with other parameters of reproductive aging and outcomes
of medically assisted reproduction.
Funding: Global Consortium for Reproductive Longevity & Equality
F-143
A Systems Biology Approach Reveals a Lower Influence of
Progesterone in Endometrial Timing Highlighting Estrogen as a
More Important Target. Antonio Parraga-Leo†,1,2 Patricia Sebastian-
Leon,2 Francisco J. Sanz,2 Pablo Garcia-Acero,2 Elena Perez-Rico,2
Josefa Maria Sanchez-Reyes,1,2 Marina Sirota,3 Jose Remohi,1,4 Antonio
Pellicer,1,2,5 Patricia Diaz-Gimeno∗.2 1University of Valencia, Valencia,
Spain; 2IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVI Foundation, Instituto de
Investigación Sanitaria La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 3Bakar Computational
Health Sciences Institute, UCSF, San Francisco, CA, United States;
4IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVI Valencia, Valencia, Spain; 5IVIRMA
Global Research Alliance, IVI Rome, Rome, Italy.
Introduction: Endometrium is a highly dynamic tissue regulated by
estrogen and progesterone, which promotes a receptivity state known
as the window of implantation (WOI). This stage varies among women,
potentially leading to endometrial failures. Transcriptomic signatures have
been proposed to date the endometrium and guide personalized embryo
transfers (pETs) to synchronize it with embryo development by adjusting
the progesterone exposure. However, the clinical benefits of pETs remain
controversial, and further research is required. Therefore, our study aims
to uncover the complex molecular mechanism involved in endometrial
timing for finding more effective treatments.
Methods: Endometrial samples from patients undergoing hormone
replacement therapy were analyzed using RNA sequencing and classified
into pre-receptive (PR), receptive (R), and post-receptive (PS) profiles
using an endometrial dating tool (TED model). Differential expression
analysis (DEA) was conducted between PR and R profiles and
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were used to create a biological
network encompassing the molecular complexity of endometrial
timing. A systems pharmacology approach, using network analysis and
signature matching, was applied to find potential approved drugs to adjust
endometrial timing.
Results: A total of 160 endometrial samples were classified as PR (86)
and R (74). DEA identified 5,336 DEGs, which were used to create
a biological network composed of 3,493 genes. Therapeutic target
identification resulted in 284 genes, including ESR1 but not PGR.
The systems pharmacology strategy identified 119 drugs. KCNH2 was
identified as the most targeted gene, related to 8 drugs, followed by HRH1
and ESR1, each targeted by 7 drugs. Strikingly, no drugs targeted PGR;
only finding nortriptyline, which targets PGRMC1 with less evidence
than other therapies.
Conclusion: Our findings confirm high transcriptomic differences
between timing profiles and prioritize key genes to understand and adjust
endometrial timing. While current efforts try to modify the hours of
progesterone for better synchronization with embryo development, our
results suggest a minor role of this hormone and a greater importance of
estrogen. This fact could offer a new perspective to address the endometrial
factor in infertility.
F-144
Navigating Reproductive Choices: How Expanded Genetic Carrier
Screening Shapes Family-Building Decisions. Thalya Douyon, Alyssa
Sandefer, Saafia Masoom, Cameron Bixby, H. Luke Ogden, Lynn Westphal,
Roohi Jeelani, Angie Beltsos. Kindbody, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Expanded genetic carrier screening (GCS) has become a
valuable tool in fertility workup to evaluate reproductive risk in patients
planning pregnancy. Several clinical management options are available
in the event that GCS identifies a monogenic risk factor, including: invitro
fertilization (IVF) with preimplantation for monogenic disorders
(PGT-M), IVF with donor gametes, embryo sex selection, or adoption.
However, the rate at which GCS alters reproductive planning is largely
undetermined. This study aims to assess how frequently high-risk GCS
informs treatment decisions in a fertility patient population.
Methods: 517 couples who accepted GCS at a private multi-site fertility
clinic from 2018-2023 were initially assessed. Retrospective chart review
analyzed treatment decisions for couples whose GCS yielded high-risk
results (n=41); n=1 couple did not ultimately complete a treatment cycle
and was excluded from analysis, resulting in a final sample of n=40.
Results: 7.9% (41/517) of couples received GCS results indicating high
or uncertain reproductive risk for autologous offspring. Patients who
proceeded with treatment (n=40) attended a comprehensive genetic
counseling session per clinic policy. After counseling, 37.5% (15/40)
consented to PGT-M for selection of an unaffected embryo, while the
remaining 62.5% (25/40) declined. Of couples who declined PGT-M, 52%
(13/25) pursued IVF with preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidy
(PGT-A), 32% (8/25) pursued IVF but declined all PGT, and 16% (4/25)
declined IVF altogether and either pursued intrauterine insemination (IUI)
(n=3) or became spontaneously pregnant (n=1). 8% (2/25) pursued other
risk-mitigating options such as IVF with use of donor gametes (n=1),
or embryo sex selection (n=1). Altogether, 42.5% (17/40) of high-risk
couples adjusted their family-building plans after GCS.
Conclusion: This study reveals that insights from GCS lead to
reproductive planning changes 3.3% (17/517) of the time. The high
declination rate of PGT-M requires clear practice guidelines to ensure
that couples opting out of measures to reduce the risk of their offspring
inheriting a severe genetic disease have received thorough counseling,
informed consent, and are aware of prepartum diagnosis options before
starting treatment. Future work should examine factors such as financial
burden or discomfort with the IVF/PGT-M process that may influence the
choice to decline clinical management options. Interventions designed to
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 205A
Friday Posters
address such barriers as they arise may increase acceptance of strategies
to reduce genetic risks uncovered through GCS, ultimately expanding
opportunities for patients to take control of their family planning.
Conclusion: Intraovarian PRP injection resulted in a vast increase in
euploid blastocysts, as well as combined euploid and mosaic embryos
among patients with an AMH ≥ 1. No benefit from PRP ovarian
rejuvenation was found in patients with a low AMH.
F-146
Glucocorticoid Exposure Modifies miRNA Levels in Primary
Epididymal Epithelial Cells Derived from Adult Male Guinea Pigs.
Christopher Casciaro†,1 Alisa Kostaki,1 Stephen Matthews∗.1,2 1University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 2Sinai Health System, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Introduction: The paternal preconception environment influences
offspring health and development. Environemental challenges experienced
by males can alter the sperm epigenome, particularily, the miRNA
profile. Recent evidence indicates that miRNAs present in sperm can
modulate embryonic development. We have previously demonstrated
that synthetic glucocorticoid (sGC) exposure modifies the miRNA profile
of sperm, potentially through extracellular vesicles (epididymosomes)
released from epididymal epithelial cells. However, the mechanisms by
which sGC exposure affects miRNA in the epididymis remain unknown.
We hypothesized that sGC exposure will influence the miRNA levels
in epididymal epithelial cells similar to those observed in sperm and
epididymosomes and that these effects may be mediated via glucocorticoid
responsive genes.
Methods: Adult male guinea pigs were given either regular drinking
water (Ctrl) or water containing dexamethasone (Dex;3mg/kg) (n=8/
group) every other day for 48 days. Epididymal epithelial cells from the
caput and cauda were isolated, cultured, and media was collected for
epididymosome isolation. To assess the acute effects of sGC exposure,
cells isolated from Ctrl animals (N=6; caput and cauda) were treated in
vitro with Dex (10-6 and 10-8M) for 24 and 48h. Total RNA was isolated
from both epithelial cells and epididymosomes, and target miRNA/mRNA
were evlauted with RT-qPCR. We measured levels of Dicer, Drosha,
Fkb5 and Ngfi-a (EGR1), which are implicated in miRNA processing
or are glucocorticoid responsive. Additionally, we evaluated miRNAs:
miR-449a, miR-125b, miR-331, Let-7d, previously shown to be affected
by Dex in sperm or epididymosomes.
Results: Cauda cells exposed to Dex in vivo exhibited significantly
reduced Ngfi-a (p=0.05), miR-125b (p=0.03) and Let-7d (p=0.004) levels
with no changes in caput cells. miRNA analysis of cauda epididymosomes
revealed a trending reduction in levels of miR-449a (p=0.1) and increased
miR-331 (p=0.07). Acute Dex treatment (10-6 and 10-8M) of caput and
cauda cells for 24 and 48 hours resulted in significant changes in target
genes and miRNAs. In particular, Fkbp5 was increased in cells treated with
10-8M Dex for 48 hours (p=0.01), and Let-7d was decreased (p=0.003).
Conclusion: Dex exposure significantly altered glucocorticoid-responsive
genes, miRNA processing machinery, and miRNA levels in epididymal
epithelial cells. Some of the miRNA changes in cells were the same as
those observed in epididymosomes and sperm. These findings indicate
that Dex exposure impacts the molecular machinery within epididymal
epithelial cells, with changes evident in both chronic (in vivo) and acute (in
vitro) exposures. This is highly relevant because these molecular changes
may mediate intergenerational effects of paternal health (and exposures)
on offspring development.
F-147
Effects of MitoQ on the SAMP8 Mouse with Reproductive Senescence.
María Madero-Molina,1 Marta Medrano,1 Alba. M. Polonio,1 Ángela
Rodriguez-García,1 Beatriz Alvera-Alonso,1 Lucía Chico-Sordo,1 Isabel
Córdova-Oriz,1 García-Velasco Juan Antonio∗,1,2,3 Elisa Varela∗.1,2 1IVIRMA
Global Research Alliance, Valencia, Spain; 2Universidad Rey Juan Carlos,
Madrid, Spain; 3IVIRMA Global Research Alliance Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
Introduction: The delay in childbearing is increasing the difficulty
to conceive spontaneously, due to ovarian aging. Telomeres, which
protect chromosome ends, are involved in aging, and oxidative stress
can accelerate telomere attrition. Thus, the use of mitochondria-targeted
antioxidants as MitoQ, may reduce oxidative damage and improve
reproductive outcomes. To this end, the Senescent-Accelerated Mouse
Prone 8 (SAMP8) model was chosen, as females show telomeric
dysfunction coinciding with fertility disorders at the age of 7 months.The
main objective of this study was to investigate whether MitoQ treatment
had a positive effect on telomeres and fertility in the SAMP8 model and
its offspring.
Methods: SAMP8 and SAMR1 females aged 7 months were treated or
not with MitoQ in drinking water, at a dose of 100 or 250 μM, for two
weeks. SAMP8 females were divided into three groups according to the
assigned treatment: 100 μM (P8-100, n=7), 250 μM (P8-250, n=8) and
no treatment (P8, n=7). SAMR1 females were included as control without
reproductive senescence (R1, n=9). After treatment, some females (n=22)
were sacrificed to collect blood and ovaries (F0). The remaining females
(n=9) were crossed to analyse the offspring. Telomere length (TL) was
measured by quantitative in situ hybridisation (qFISH) in PBMCs, and
telomerase activity (TA) by TRAP assay in ovaries. Survival, body size
and number of pups were recorded, and the females (n=24) were sacrificed
at the age of 3 months to evaluate telomeric parameters (F1).
Results: In blood, TL was lower in SAMP8 compared to SAMR1 females
(3726 u.a. P8 vs 4525 u.a. R1; p=0.0103). Accordingly, the percentage of
long telomeres was lower in SAMP8 (7.71% P8 vs 15.38% R1; p=0.0085)
and the accumulation of short telomeres was higher (36.31% P8 vs
15.71% R1; p=0.0075). No differences were found in systemic TL after
MitoQ treatment (3795 u.a. P8 vs 3603 u.a. P8-100 vs 3780 u.a. P8-250;
p= 0,8411), although an increase in ovarian TA was found with the 250
μM dose in 80% of females (n=5). Regarding the progeny, increased
survival rates were found in the offspring of SAMP8 females treated with
MitoQ at 100 μM compared to SAMP8 control (94% P8-100 vs 71% P8;
p=0.0326). Likewise, increased body size was observed in the offspring
of SAMP8 females treated with MitoQ at 100 μM compared to SAMR1
controls at day 9 (45,07mm P8-100 vs 42,5mm P8; p=0.0184) and day 11
post-partum (48,74mm P8-100 vs 45,68mm P8; p=0.0066).
Conclusion: Overall, our data suggest that treatment with MitoQ at an
appropriate dose increase AT levels in the ovary and has a positive effect
on offspring.
F-148
The Quantification of Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) in
Plasma of Patients Undergoing Infertility Treatment in Iowa. Prapti
Singh†,1 Samantha Good,2 Joseph Charbonnet,2 Amy E. Sparks,1 Karen
Summers,1 Aileen F. Keating∗.2 1University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, United
States; 2Iowa State University, Ames, IA, United States.
Introduction: Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are
environmental toxicants associated with negative reproductive health
outcomes. Our objective was to quantify PFAS in plasma of female
patients undergoing infertility treatment in Iowa.
Methods: This pilot study used plasma previously approved for collection
from the University of Iowa tissue bank (IRB #201709794). Demographic
data including age, BMI, and infertility diagnosis was obtained. Fertility
outcomes collected included number of cycles completed to achieve
conception and cycle outcomes. Using solid-phase extraction and liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, we surveyed tissue bank
plasma samples for 41 PFAS, including both legacy and replacement
species. Triplicates confirmed the ability to accurately and precisely
quantify these data. Statistical analysis was performed with Python v.
3.12.4, utilizing the “pandas” and “scipy.stats” libraries. Quantitative
data are presented as means (±SD) and categorical data as frequencies
(%). Spearman rank correlation plots were used to determine association
amongst analytes (where ≥ 0.75 is considered a strong association).
Results: Mean patient age was 33.5 (±3.8) years and BMI was 27.6 (±6.0)
kg/m2. Most patients (88%) identified as White. Of those that underwent
fertility treatment (63%), most required 3 (±2.5) cycles to conceive. Most
patients had a diagnosis of male factor infertility (37.5%). PFAS in the
plasma of 8 patients were quantified. Of the 41 PFAS targeted, seven
were detected above the limit of quantification in 100% of patients: PFOA
681.1(±869.2) ng/L, PFOS 644.1 (±546.5) ng/L, PFHxS 143.7 (±116.8)
ng/L, PFNA 102.1 (±130.6) ng/L, PFDA 74.1 (±116.4) ng/L, PFHxA 31.2
206A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
(±10.3) ng/L, and PFHpS 19.3 (±14.7) ng/L. An additional seven PFAS
were quantified in at least one patient: 5:3 FTCA, 7:3 FTCA, , PFHpA,
PFUdA, PFBS, PFPeS, and MeFOSAA. Plasma concentrations in patients
spanned orders of magnitude. Very strong correlations (Spearman’s rank
correlation coefficient ≥ 0.95) existed between the following long-chain
PFAS: PFOA:PFNA, PFOA:PFDA, PFHxS:PFOS, and PFNA:PFDA,
the following short-chain PFAS: PFHpA:PFBS and PFBA:PFPeS, and
one short-chain:long-chain pair: PFHxA:PFHpS. Strong correlations
(Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient ≥ 0.75) also existed between 11
other pairs of targeted species.
Conclusion: Both legacy and novel PFAS are present in the plasma of our
cohort of 8 patients seeking infertility treatment in Iowa. We are analyzing
paired plasma and follicular fluid samples from a larger sample size
stratified by PCOS, unexplained infertility, and endometriosis diagnoses.
We hope to further explore the PFAS burden patterns within specific
diagnoses and identify associations in fertility outcomes amongst patients.
F-149
Engineered Endometrial Mucosal Barrier Model Recapitulates
Gland-Lumen Structure in Synthetic Hydrogel. Elise M Gubbins†,
Linda G Griffith∗. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
MA, United States.
Introduction: The human endometrium has a complex 3D architecture
consisting of a functionalis layer of a luminal surface and deep glands
atop a basalis layer of interconnected branching glands, supported by
an immune cell-rich stroma. Capturing this cellular and architectural
complexity in vitro, particularly in a dynamic manner to model the
transition from the late proliferative to mid-luteal phases in patientderived
samples, holds potential to illuminate physiological processes
in implantation as well as pathophysiologies. Here, we describe a new
method to drive morphogenesis of endometrial gland-lumen structures
with separate apical and basal access, using a synthetic extracellular matrix
(ECM) hydrogel to improve physiological relevance and reproducibility.
Methods: Endometrial epithelial organoids (EEOs) and stromal cells
(ESCs) derived from patient biopsies were co-encapsulated in a synthetic
ECM hydrogel comprising 8-arm poly(ethylene glycol) macromers,
functionalized with integrin- and matrix-adhesive peptides, and
crosslinked with a cell-degradable peptide. ECM mechanical properties
(soft-stiff) were systematically varied by crosslinking conditions. EEOs
encapsulated with and without donor-matched ESCs within the synthetic
ECM were loaded into a custom acrylic scaffold which allowed for
separate apical and basal media access in a standard 24 well plate.
Cultures were first maintained in growth media, and were switched to
progesterone-containing differentiation media at defined time points of
emergence. Morphogenesis of EEOs into contiguous, polarized glandlumen
structures following fusion with the ECM surface[1] was monitored
by in situ imaging. Replicate cultures were harvested at specific time points
for immunostaining and expression assays. [1] Gnecco et al., Med. 2023
Aug 11;4(8):554-579.e9 doi: 10.1016/j.medj.2023.07.004
Results: Across multiple donors, soft hydrogel formulations (E=~100
Pa) resulted in fusion and monolayer outgrowth to form properly
polarized gland-lumen structures, as assessed by actin staining, while
stiffer formulations instead favored formation of elongated projections
with polarity inverted at the gel-liquid interface, and only rare outgrowth
into monolayers. Morphogenesis and gland-lumen phenotypical function
was influenced by organoid seeding density and timing of medium shift.
Conclusion: This synthetic ECM robustly supports generation of a glandlumen
mucosal barrier via organoid fusion in a manner that depends on
ECM mechanical properties. This model provides a way to reproducibly
control hormonal fluctuations corresponding with the menstrual cycle,
opening the door to investigate aspects of implantation.
F-151
3D In Vitro Human Implantation Modelling Uncovers the Role of Cellin-
Cell Mechanisms during Early Embryo-Endometrial Interactions
Driven by Rho-ROCK Pathway. Andrea Palomar Rios†,1 Alicia
Quiñonero,1 Irene Zorzan,2 Roberto Yagüe†,1 Sara Morales†,1 Amparo
Mercader,1 Pilar Alama,1 Jose Remohí,1 Peter Rugg-Gunn,2 Matteo Molè∗,3
Francisco Dominguez∗.1,3 1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance - IVI
Foundation - IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2Babraham Institute, Cambridge,
United Kingdom; 3Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, United States.
Introduction: During human embryo implantation, firsts embryoendometrial
epithelial interactions lead are crucial rupture epithelial
lining, allowing embryo invasion into the stroma. The involvement of
cell-in-cell (CIC) mechanisms, such as entosis, in clearing this barrier is
underexplored. This study characterizes CIC events during implantation,
using in vivo tissue, 3D in vitro models, and live imaging of human
embryo-maternal interface at implantation.
Methods: Advanced 3D co-culture models were established using
endometrial epithelial (hEnEC) and stromal (hEnSC) cells with
trophoblast spheroids, human GFP-blastoids, and human embryos. Our
novel 3D endometrial scaffold mimics endometrial cytoarchitecture, is
hormone-responsive, and replicates the implantation process. CIC events,
specifically hEnEC internalization by trophoblast cells, were analyzed
by confocal microscopy and 3D reconstruction. In vivo immunostaining
throughout the menstrual cycle quantified key molecular drivers like
autotaxin (ATX), a lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-releasing enzyme, and
LPA receptor (LPA3). qPCR and western blot measured changes in
LPA3, RhoA, and ROCK in control and LPA-treated hEnEC. ROCK and
ATX inhibitors confirmed their roles in CIC. CIC events and trophoblast
adhesion were quantified by microscopy and fluorescence. Live imaging
tracked CIC dynamics, adhesion, and invasion via GFP signal and β-hCG
secretion in control and ROCK/ATX-inhibited models.
Results: Confocal 3D reconstructions showed hEnEC internalization by
JEG spheroids, blastoids, and embryos. Immunofluorescence confirmed
hEnEC internalization by GATA3+ trophoblast cells. ATX and LPA3
were localized in the endometrial epithelium across the menstrual cycle,
validated in vitro. LPA-treated hEnEC showed increased RhoA and ROCK
proteins, confirming LPA-induced ROCK activation. ROCK and ATX
inhibition significantly reduced hEnEC internalization and decreased
trophoblast adhesion by 50% and 40%, respectively. Live-imaging
confirmed CIC internalization under control conditions, while ROCK/
ATX inhibition reduced internalization and lowered GFP and β-hCG
levels, indicating impaired implantation.
Conclusion: 3D in vitro modeling of implantation confirmed CIC
mechanisms at the embryo-maternal interface, with the Rho-ROCK
axis crucial for embryo-endometrial communication. CIC may facilitate
epithelial barrier clearance during early implantation. (ISCIII PI20/00405;
PI23/00860. GVA CIAPOT/2022/18)
F-152
VEZT Regulates the Hippo Signalling Pathway in the Endometrium.
Jacqueline F Donoghue∗,1 Georgina Prewer,1 Brodie Bilston,1 Leonie
Cann,1 Jessica Chung,1,2 Peter A.W. Rogers.1 1Department of Obstetrics,
Gynaecology and Newborn Health, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Australia; 2Melbourne Bioinformatics, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Australia.
Introduction: VEZT encodes a transmembrane protein known as vezatin
that’s plays a pivotal role in the establishment and integrity of adherens
junctions of epithelial cells. While VEZT has essential functional roles
in pre-implantation embryo development, it is also a significant eQTL
associated with an increased risk of endometriosis development. The
functional role of VEZT in endometrium is unknown and the aim of
this study was to demonstrate structural and functional roles of VEZT in
endometrium across the menstrual cycle.
Methods: Using RNA Seq, VEZT expression was demonstrated across
the menstrual cycle of >400 normal cycling participants. Functional
analysis was then focused on the secretory phase of the cycle where
VEZT expression was highest. VEZT was then overexpressed in human
endometrial stromal cells followed by RNASeq and pathway analysis.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 207A
Friday Posters
Immunohistochemistry was performed on tissue microarrays to
demonstrate VEZT protein expression and cell based functional assays
were performed to demonstrate a functional role of VEZT during the
secretory phase of the menstrual cycle.
Results: VEZT was expressed across the menstrual cycle with a significant
increase during the secretory phase. VEZT protein (vezatin) was expressed
in every cellular compartment of endometrium with significant increases
in decidualised stromal cells. While VEZT overexpression upregulated
pro-inflammatory receptors and cytokines, it also upregulated PRL,
IGFBP3, and PGR (stromal cell decidualisation genes). While the
treatment of stromal cells with medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA)
also upregulated PRL, IGFBP3 and PGR, the silencing of VEZT only
suppressed PRL and PGR and not IGFBP3, indicating a specific role in the
decidualisation process. Overexpression of VEZT in endometrial stromal
cells also upregulated YAP, TAZ, SAV, BCL-2, and CTGF, all members
of the Hippo signalling pathway, while silencing VEZT inhibited these
Hippo pathway genes.
Conclusion: This study identified a functional role for VEZT in the
regulation of the decidualisation process during the secretory phase of the
menstrual cycle and direct regulation of the Hippo signalling pathway. As
Hippo signalling regulates angiogenesis, cell proliferation, differentiation,
organ growth, embryogenesis, and tissue regeneration/wound healing,
VEZT may also have a role in regulating processes such as embryo
implantation and endometrial breakdown and repair. Upregulation of
the Hippo pathway is associated with endometriosis and upregulation of
VEZT may contribute to this pathological process.
F-154
Senolytic Drugs Restore the Decidual Phenotype in a Pathological
Model of Doxorubicin-Induced Senescence in Endometrial Cells.
Jeronimo Fernando Garrido Figueroa†,1 Roberto González,1 Alicia
Quiñonero Villora,1 Sara Morales†,1 Andrea Palomar†,1 Roberto Yagüe†,1
Francisco Dominguez∗.1,2 1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance - IVI
Foundation - IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2Stanford University, Palo Alto,
CA, United States.
Introduction: The accumulation of senescent cells in the endometrium has
been linked to reduced proliferation of endometrial stromal cell, impaired
decidual cell differentiation, and decreased prolactin release, as well as
an increase in a proinflammatory environment unfavorable for embryo
implantation (Kusama et al., 2021). This increase in senescent cells may
result in pathological ageing and reproductive diseases. This study aims to
study the effects of doxorubicin-induced senescence on decidualization in
vitro, as well as to evaluate the impact of senolytic drugs on the recovery
of the decidual phenotype.
Methods: Human primary endometrial stromal cells were isolated from
endometrial biopsies of healthy oocyte donors during their natural cycle
(n=10). Cells were decidualized by adding cAMP and MPA for 4 days,
prolactin (PRL) and insulin like growth factor binding protein 1 (IGFBP1)
levels were measured by ELISA to confirm decidualization (n=3).
Senescence was induced by treating the cells with 50, 100, and 200 nM
doxorubicin for 7 days, starting 3 days before decidualization induction.
The impact of senescence on decidualization was assessed by measuring
p21, PRL and IGFBP1 levels via ELISA (n=3). Senescence was confirmed
by immunocytochemistry of beta-galactosidase and gammaH2AX in cells
treated with 100 nM doxorubicin (n=3). Cell viability assay (MTS) was
used to assess the effect of 100 nM doxorubicin on cell viability (n=3). The
effects of senolytic drugs (dasatinib/quercetin and fisetin) on the senescent
decidual cells were evaluated using PRL and IGFBP1 ELISA (n=3).
Results: Stromal cells secreted PRL and IGFBP1 after 4 days of treatment
with cAMP and MPA, confirming the decidual phenotype. P21 levels
increased in a dose-dependent manner with doxorubicin, indicating the
induction of cellular senescence. PRL and IGFBP1 levels decreased in
the presence of doxorubicin, validating the negative impact of senescence
on decidualization. Beta-galactosidase and gammaH2AX expression
increased with 100 nM doxorubicin, supporting the presence of cellular
senescence and DNA damage. At the same dose, doxorubicin increases
cell death. Treatment with senolytic drugs restored PRL and IGFBP1
levels in senescent decidual cells, confirming the functional recovery of
decidualization.
Conclusion: Doxorubicin increases cellular senescence, DNA damage
and cell mortality in endometrial stromal cells and decidual cells, which
in turn impairs the decidualization process. Senolytic drugs restore
decidual phenotype, with recovery of PRL and IGFBP1 secretion in our
pathological model of doxorubicin-induced senescence in endometrial
cells. Funding: CIGRIS/2022/187; ISCIII - PI23/00860.
F-155
Worsened Endometrial Decidualization and In Vitro Fertilization
Outcomes in Insulin-Resistant Women with Adenomyosis. Ana Belén
Albert†,1 Ana Corachán†,1 Aitana Merino-Pérez†,1 Amparo Faus,1 Carmen
Vidal,2 Juan Giles,2 Mauro Cozzolino,3 Antonio Pellicer,3 Hortensia
Ferrero.1 1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVI Foundation, IIS La Fe,
Valencia, Spain; 2IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVIRMA Valencia,
Valencia, Spain; 3IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVIRMA Rome,
Rome, Italy.
Introduction: Implantation occurs when a viable embryo migrates to the
uterus, attaches, and invades a receptive endometrium. Steroid hormones
regulate the molecular mechanisms leading to the endometrial receptivity
state and any disruption can result in recurrent implantation failure and
spontaneous abortions. Considering that insulin resistance (IR) has been
linked to implantation failure and, adenomyosis can be associated with
IR, we aimed to assess the effect of IR on the molecular dysregulation
of endometrial receptivity and embryo implantation in women with
adenomyosis.
Methods: Infertile patients with/without adenomyosis diagnosed via
ultrasound or hysteroscopy were evaluated for IR using the oral glucose
tolerance test. Patients were classified into three groups: infertile patients
without IR (Control - IR, n = 9), adenomyosis patients with IR (Adeno
+ IR, n = 11), and adenomyosis patients without IR (Adeno - IR, n = 8).
Eutopic endometrial biopsies were collected during the secretory phase
(P+5), and total RNA was extracted to assess gene expression by qRT-PCR
for insulin-signaling genes (INSR, IRS2), glucose transport/metabolism
genes (GLUT1, PFKFB3), and decidualization-related genes (WNT4,
PRL, PAEP). Results are presented as average fold change ± standard
deviation. Additionally, in vitro fertilization (IVF) outcomes per embryo
transfer were analysed.
Results: Endometrium from Adeno + IR showed downregulation of INSR
(0.68 ± 0.40, P = 0.0191), IRS2 (0.66 ± 0.41, P = 0.0007) and GLUT1 (0.81
± 0.48, P = 0.0109) compared to Control - IR, while downregulation of
the PFKFB3 gene (1.37 ± 0.66 vs 0.77 ± 0.36, P = 0.0246) was observed
in Adeno + IR compared to Adeno - IR. In addition, Adeno + IR also
showed downregulation of decidualization-related genes WNT4 (0.76 ±
0.50, P = 0.0109), PAEP (0.30 ± 0.38, P = 0.0019) and PRL (0.58 ± 0.43,
P = 0.0010) compared to Control - IR. PRL was also downregulated in
Adeno + IR compared to Adeno - IR (1.59 ± 1.02; P = 0.0046). About IVF
outcomes per embryo transfer, Adeno + IR showed lower implantation
rates than Adeno - IR (21.43 % vs. 73.11 %; P = 0.0363) and lower ongoing
pregnancy rates (0% vs. 63.67%; P = 0.0026).
Conclusion: Infertile women with adenomyosis and systemic insulin
resistance exhibit this condition at the endometrial level, resulting in the
downregulation of decidualization markers, therefore lower implantation
rates and fewer ongoing pregnancies after IVF. These results suggest that
insulin-resistant women with adenomyosis may experience impaired
implantation due to defective decidualization and disrupted cellular
glucose uptake, potentially hindering successful pregnancy development.
208A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
F-157
Characterizing Uterine Natural Killer Cell Interactions with
Endometrial Stromal Cells during Decidualization Using a Menstrual
Effluent-Derived Model. Stephanie Busch†,1,2 Andrew Shih,1 Polona
Safaric-Tepes,1 Laurianna Frasson,1 RIxsi Herrera,1 Houman Khalili,1
Peter Gregersen,1,2 Christine Metz∗.1,2 1Feinstein Institutes for Medical
Research, Manhasset, NY, United States; 2Donald and Barbara Zucker
School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, Hempstead, NY, United States.
Introduction: Uterine natural killer (uNK) cells make up 50-70% of
decidual lymphocytes in the secretory endometrium and are distinguished
by their CD56bright CD16- phenotype. uNK cells have many roles in
maintaining endometrial homeostasis including regulating endometrial
receptivity during endometrial stromal cell (eSC) decidualization,
clearing senescent decidual cells, and increasing spiral artery remodeling.
However, most functional studies involving human uNK cells are limited
by the availability of uterine tissue samples. In this study, we developed
and validated uNK cell expansion techniques using menstrual effluent
(ME) as a source of endometrial tissue, then used these ME-derived uNK
cells to investigate the interactions between uNK cells and decidualizing
eSCs.
Methods: Menstrual effluent (ME) samples were collected from patients
aged 18-37 enrolled in the Research OutSmarts Endometriosis (ROSE)
studies at the Feinstein Institutes for Medical Research. uNK cells were
purified by sequential magnetic isolations and expanded in vitro for 16-
30 days using IL-15 and IL-2. Freshly isolated and cultured ME-derived
uNK cells were transcriptionally verified by scRNAseq and compared to
reference datasets. For coculture experiments, decidualization of eSCs
was induced by cAMP + MPA. Physical interactions between uNK
cells and decidualizing eSCs were observed by microscopy and eSC
staining. Transcriptional changes in uNK-eSC cocultures were assessed
by scRNAseq.
Results: Isolation methods achieved a purity of up to 92% CD56bright
CD16- uNK cells. Cultured ME-derived uNK cells exhibited up to 30-
fold expansion while maintaining surface phenotype and viability for
over 30 days. Transcriptomic analysis of freshly isolated and cultured
ME-derived uNK cells reveals strong mapping to published dNK
subsets, with expansion cultures shifting from a predominantly dNK1
phenotype to a predominantly dNK3 phenotype. When cocultured with
decidualizing eSCs, uNK cells displayed contact-mediated cytolysis of
eSCs. Transcriptomic analysis of uNK-eSCs cocultures reveals uNK
cell activation pathways and supports potential mechanisms regulating
endometrial homeostasis mediated by eSC-uNK interactions.
Conclusion: These results indicate that ME is a viable source of uNK
cells that can be used in downstream functional analyses, and highlight
the role of uNK cells in endometrial regulation during decidualization. In
summary, the development of techniques to isolate and study uNK cells
from ME expands their availability and allows for improved exploration
of their role in women’s reproductive health.
F-158
Spatial Mapping of Decidual Lymphoid Aggregates during Early
Pregnancy. Andreas Ian Lackner†,1 Anna-Lena Hoebler,2 Naveed Ishaque,3
Juergen Pollheimer∗,2 Michael Angelo∗.1 1Stanford, Stanford, CA, United
States; 2Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria; 3Berlin Institute
of Health, Berlin, Germany.
Introduction: The formation of the maternal-fetal interface in the first
weeks of pregnancy is essential for healthy fetal development. This process
requires placental cells, called trophoblasts, to deeply invade into the
maternal mucosa (=decidua), resulting in significant changes to the local
microenvironment. As shown in previous studies, the immune cells in the
decidua are key players in this interaction between fetus and mother, yet
very little data exist on the distribution of specific immune cell subtypes
and how trophoblast invasion affects their phenotype.
Methods: Tissue samples from 12 first-trimester pregnancy terminations
(weeks 7-8) were categorized into decidual tissues affected by placental
invasion and tissues distant from the placentation site From these samples,
an FFPE array was generated and analyzed using the recently released
spatial transcriptomics method, Xenium, which measures a custom panel
of 488 transcripts on tissue sections. To allow for accurate annotation
of detected cells, the data were analyzed concurrently with an existing
single-cell RNA-seq dataset already present in the lab using R and Python.
Results: Xenium revealed a fascinating spatial depiction of trophoblast
invasion, including trophoblast plugs, spiral artery remodeling, along
with several intriguing cellular co-localizations, in both tissues affected
and unaffected by placental invasion. In addition, we observed the
formation of lymphoid aggregates composed of a specific subtype of
macrophages, surrounded by increased numbers of T cells, specific NK
cells, and dendritic cells. We employed cell-cell interaction analysis to
uncover potential mechanisms within these aggregates, suggesting they
play a role in local immune defense and regulation of local immune cell
populations. Interestingly, invading trophoblasts seem to dissolve these
lymphoid aggregates, as we found significantly fewer of them in the
placentally invaded regions.
Conclusion: Our spatial approach revealed both the presence and
composition of lymphoid aggregates in the decidua, further suggesting
that specific macrophages and NK cells play a crucial role in their
formation. The decreased presence of these aggregates upon placental
invasion indicates their important role in tissue remodeling during the
first trimester of pregnancy. These findings warrant further investigation,
as the formation and dissolution of these aggregates could be essential
for successful pregnancy and may contribute to the understanding of
obstetrical syndromes such as preeclampsia or recurrent miscarriage.
F-160
Oxidative Stress in Decidual Cells Induce Release of Vaginal Epithelial
Cells-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Enriched with Interferon Epsilon.
Emmanuel Amabebe,1 Lauren S Richardson,1 Awanit Kumar,1 Ramkumar
Menon∗,1 Brandie D Taylor∗.1,2 1University of Texas Medical Branch at
Galveston, Galveston, TX, United States; 2Advocate Aurora Research
Institute, Milwaukee, WI, United States.
Introduction: Improper decidualization due to oxidative stress (OS)-
induced inflammation could precipitate preeclampsia. This condition is
associated with elevated vaginal fluid (VF) and VF-derived extracellular
vesicles (EVs) interferon epsilon (IFNε). We tested the hypothesis that
OS-induced inflammatory response in decidual cells (DECs) may trigger
the release of IFNε-positive EVs from vaginal epithelial cells (VECs).
Methods: Immortalized VECs were incubated for 48 hours under the
following conditions: 1) standard media (VEC), 2) treated with OSinducing
cigarette smoke extract (CSE, 1:50) (VEC+CSE), and exposed
to conditioned media from 3) untreated DECs (VEC+DEC), and 4) CSEtreated
DECs (VEC+DEC+CSE). The level of IFNε (ng/mL) expressed
within the treated and untreated VECs, secreted into their culture media
and packaged in EVs, was measured by ELISA. Each group of samples
contained three biological replicates (n=3). EVs were isolated from
culture media by cushioned-density gradient ultracentrifugation. EV
identity, size, and particles/mL were confirmed by immunoblotting
using Exo-Check™ Exosome Antibody Arrays and nanoparticle tracking
analysis. Log-transformed data were analyzed with either Welch’s t-test
or Welch’s ANOVA.
Results: Treatment with conditioned media from untreated and CSEtreated
DECs induced increased intracellular (p=0.004, p=0.049) and
free IFNε (p=0.039, p=0.031) from VECs. VEC-derived EVs expressed
tetraspanins and ESCRT exosome markers, and had a median size of
126±11.8 nm, which did not change regardless of treatment. However,
conditioned media from untreated (p=0.004) and CSE-treated DECs
(p=0.025) reduced VEC exosome secretion. Furthermore, conditioned
media from untreated (2.5-fold, p=0.0001) and CSE-treated DECs (~4-
fold, p=0.041) significantly increased the concentration of IFNε in VECderived
EVs compared to controls. Lastly, direct treatment of VECs with
CSE (OS induction) increased intracellular IFNε in VECs (p=0.0007) but
not free or EV-bound IFNε.
Conclusion: Oxidative stress-induced inflammatory response in decidual
cells triggers the release of significant levels of free and EV-bound IFNε
from vaginal epithelial cells. IFNε may be involved in non-infectious
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 209A
Friday Posters
inflammatory crosstalk between gestational tissues via mechanisms
that are still not entirely clear and could be a biomarker of improper or
inflammatory decidual response.
F-161
Dyslipidemia May Be a Risk Factor for Recurrent Pregnancy Losses
by Increasing NK Cell Cytotoxicity and Autoimmunity. Yuan Zhang†,1,2
Monira Alzahrani†,1,3 Thanh Luu∗,1 Joy Fatunbi†,1 Mahmood Bilal∗,4 Amy
Thees∗,4 Svetlana Dambaeva∗,4 Joanne Young Kwak-Kim∗.1 1Rosalind
Franklin University of Medicine and Science, Chicago Medical School,
North Chicago, IL, United States; 2The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing
Medical University, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China; 3Women’s
Health Hospital, King Abdulaziz Medical City, King Saud bin Abdulaziz
University for Health Sciences, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; 4Center for Cancer
Cell Biology, Immunology and Infection, Chicago Medical School, Rosalind
Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL, United
States.
Introduction: The incidence of dyslipidemia is increasing among women
of childbearing age. Many studies have shown that dyslipidemia affects
female fertility but the relevant mechanisms are not clear. This study aims
to investigate the immune responses in women with dyslipidemia and a
history of recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) and explore the in-vitro effect
of oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL) on human peripheral blood
natural killer (NK) cells.
Methods: A retrospective cross-sectional study was conducted of 42
women with RPL, including 15 women with hyperlipidemia and 27 women
with normal lipid levels. The baseline characteristics, immunophenotype,
NK cell cytotoxicity, T helper (Th) 1/ Th2 cell ratios and autoantibodies
were compared between the two groups. Additionally, 12 women with
RPL were selected randomly for prospective in vitro study and the effects
of different concentrations of ox-LDL on the functions of NK cells in
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were investigated
Results: The prevalence of anti-double strand (dsDNA) antibody and
anti-histone antibody were significantly higher in the dyslipidemia
group. NK cytotoxicity at effector to target cell (E:T) ratio of 12.5:1 was
significantly higher in dyslipidemia group when compared with control
group (P < 0.05). There were no differences in Th1/Th2 cytokine ratios
between dyslipidemia and normal lipid group. In the in vitro study, NK
cell cytotoxicity (at E:T ratio of 50:1 and 25:1) were significantly increased
after co-culture with 5 and 50 μg/mL oxLDL (P < 0.05). Flow cytometry
demonstrated a significant increase in the proportions of NKP46+ and
NKP30+ NK cells accompanied by enhanced degranulation of NK cells
with oxLDL.
Conclusion: Women with RPL and dyslipidemia have a higher prevalence
of autoantibodies and increased NK cell cytotoxicity in compared
with normal lipid group. Oxidized LDL may play a role in NK cell
cytotoxicity. Detecting and treating dyslipidemia in women with RPL
may improve reproductive outcomes by intervening in lipid-induced
immune-inflammatory responses
F-162
Unraveling the Developmental Trajectories of Syncytiotrophoblast
Subtypes in an hESC-Derived Trophoblast Model. Teka Khan†.
University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States.
Introduction: Single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNAseq) has proven
to be an invaluable tool for studying multinucleated cell types. Using this
technology on human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-derived trophoblasts
(TB) in a BMP4-based differentiation (BAP) model, we previously
identified two distinct syncytiotrophoblast (STB) nuclear populations from
BAP day 8 TB. Subsequent investigations support that these two STB
nuclear populations represent distinct STB subtypes, rather than different
nuclear populations that co-occupy a single STB patch. Furthermore, one
STB subtype likely matures more rapidly than the other, as cells expressing
protein markers of the that subtype are more completely fused on day
8. We hypothesize that two developmental trajectories may contribute
to STB formation, with cells potentially transitioning through different
intermediate stages before developing into one of the two STB subtypes.
Methods: Here, to explore the origin and formation of these STB subtypes,
we conducted a time-course snRNAseq study across 11 time points,
including the undifferentiated hESC state, hESC cultured in conditioned
medium for 24 hours (BAPd0), and BAP days 0.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 11.
Results: Two clusters with expression of STB markers appeared as early
as BAP day 2, with the STB signatures becoming more pronounced as the
culture progressed. Notably, clusters organized into two distinct groups at
every time point, including undifferentiated hESCs, suggesting that the
two STB subtypes may originate from these two groups of hESCs. We
identified 41 and 84 genes in the snRNAseq data that are upregulated in
Group-1 and Group-2, respectively, and that encode translation products
localized on the cell surface. Among them, CD24 from Group-2 has
been shown to discriminate between primed and naïve ESCs in both
human and mouse. Preliminary flow cytometry experiments confirm the
presence of CD24-positive and CD24-negative hESC populations in the
undifferentiated cells. Future studies will investigate their differentiation
potential under BAP conditions.
Conclusion: In summary, our findings provide valuable insights into
the developmental trajectories of STB subtypes and the mechanisms
underlying trophoblast differentiation.
F-163
TSC Differentiate 10-100-Fold More 1st Lineage Than ESC under
Stress, Predicting Miscarriage. Daniel Rappolee∗, Elizabeth E Puscheck,
Ximena L Ruden, Aditi SIngh, Maurice A Recanati, Awoniyi O Awonuga,
Steven J Korzeniewski, Ruden M Ruden. Wayne State University, Detroit,
MI, United States.
Introduction: Most embryos miscarry soon after fertilization, and ~50%
of miscarriage is due to environmental causes. We hypothesize that after
placental trophoblast and embryonic stem cells (TSC and ESC) with
many stresses, TSC have larger stress-forced differentiation than ESC
in response to environmental and pharmaceutical compounds, and better
predict miscarriage.
Methods: TSC and Pdgfra-GFP 1st differentiated lineage (extra-embryonic
endoderm/XEN) viable reporter ESC were cultured for 72hr and subject
to the same stresses and doses in a live imager. TSC were Hoechst
nuclear-stained, micrographed and nuclear size- and ploidy-quantitated
using CellPose Artificial Intelligence and Cellprofiler to assess cell
number of TSC (2-4N) and 1st lineage differentiated trophoblast giant
cells (TGC>4N). ESC were tested for 1st differentiated lineage by bulk
RNAseq. Non-, weak-, and strong embryotoxic compounds, from a
previous ESC HTS.
Results: The highest TSC-to-TGC increase was ~30-to-70% TGC, but
the highest approximate ESC-to-XEN increase was ~0.1-to-1% XEN.
TSC ESC NS 5% 0.01% ND 11% 0.1% Penicillin 10uM 5% na Salicylic
acid 10uM 7% na Benzo(a)pyrene 10uM 12% na (bulk RNAseq neg)
Methylmercury chloride 10uM 30% na Retinoic acid 1uM 42% 0.91%
Hypoxia 0.5% O2 51% na 6-aminonicotinamide 10uM 64% na Sorbitol
200mM 75% 0.81%
Conclusion: The TSC-to-TGC HTS detected non-, weak-, and strong
embryotoxic compounds in expected categories, but the effect on TGC 1st
lineage subpopulation size was >ESC-to-XEN 1st lineage subpopulation.
This suggests that TSC differentiate more, thus depleting the lineage and
leading to miscarriage. The data suggest that TSC predict miscarriage
and at survival doses ESC predict birth defects.
F-164
Serum Metabolomics of Threatened Miscarriage: Steroid, Fatty
Acid, Folate & Glycosaminoglycan Pathway Dysregulations. Yu Bin
Tan†,1 Chee Wai Ku∗,2 Kuan Yang Chew†,3 Chee Onn Ku†,4 Carissa
Ng†,4 Rehena Sultana∗,1 Yie Hou Lee∗.1 1Duke-NUS Medical School,
Singapore, Singapore; 2KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital, Singapore,
Singapore; 3Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Singapore;
4National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
Introduction: Threatened miscarriage occurs in approximately 20% of
pregnancies, leading to significant anxiety due to uncertain outcomes
after early pregnancy bleeding. Despite its prevalence, the biological
mechanisms driving miscarriage risk remain unclear. We hypothesize
210A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
that metabolic dysregulation contributes to these outcomes and aim to
identify distinct serum metabolic pathways associated with miscarriage
risk in women with threatened miscarriage.
Methods: This prospective case-control study enrolled 70 women
presenting with threatened miscarriage between 5-12 weeks of gestation at
KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital (March 2017 - November 2022). Of
these, 38 women had successful pregnancies, 32 experienced miscarriage.
10 healthy pregnant women without threatened miscarriage were included
as controls. Serum samples collected at presentation underwent untargeted
metabolomic analysis using mass spectrometry, supervised discriminant
analysis, and pathway enrichment via MetaboAnalyst 5.0 to identify
perturbed pathways and potential discriminatory biomarkers.
Results: We identified significant dysregulation in 28 metabolites
across four major pathways among women who miscarried. Steroid
hormone biosynthesis was the most affected (p<0.001), particularly
with reduced levels of estrone-sulfate (fold change, FC=0.39). Other
altered pathways included unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis (p<0.05)
with elevated palmitic acid (FC=2.02), and folate metabolism (p<0.05)
with decreased 4α-hydroxytetrahydrobiopterin (FC=0.70). Additionally,
glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis, vital for extracellular matrix formation
during embryo implantation, was notably impaired in those who
miscarried (p<0.05).
Conclusion: This study offers new insights into the metabolic shifts
underlying threatened miscarriage outcomes, particularly in pathways
related to steroid hormones, fatty acids, folate, and glycosaminoglycans.
These findings provide a potential foundation for better prognostic tools
and therapeutic interventions to mitigate miscarriage risk in women with
early pregnancy complications.
F-165
CRISPR/Cas3 as a Potential Chromosome Therapy Tool: Targeting
Chromosome 21 in Cell Lines. Roberto Yagüe-Serrano†,1 Carles Bayod,2
Elvira Luna,2 Andrea Palomar†,1 Alicia Quiñonero,1 Sara Morales-Álvarez,1
Imma Sánchez-Ribas∗,3 Marc Güell,2 Francisco Domínguez∗.1,4 1IVI
Foundation, Valencia, Spain; 2Universidad Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona,
Spain; 3IVI Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 4Stanford University, Palo Alto,
CA, United States.
Introduction: CRISPR/Cas systems, known for their genome editing
capabilities, have been shown to remove entire chromosomes. However,
the most used CRISPR/Cas system, CRISPR/Cas9, is reported to have
considerable off-target activity. In contrast, the CRISPR/Cas3 system is
known for its significantly reduced off-target activity and its ability to
induce larger deletions, both of which may be advantageous for targeting
entire chromosomes, such as Chromosome 21, to develop a chromosome
therapy for treating aneuploidies at preimplantation stages. The aim of this
project is to investigate whether the genome-editing capabilities of the
CRISPR/Cas3 system have the potential to restore chromosomal balance
in cells affected by trisomy.
Methods: Specific guide RNAs (gRNA) were designed to target two
closely located genes involved in the Down Syndrome phenotype, based
on state-of-the art literature: GART and DONSON, both making a cluster
of 85 kb. These gRNAs, along with CRISPR/Cas3 elements-coding
plasmids including a mCherry marker, were transfected into the HEK-
293T cell line. Transfection efficiency was measured by flow cytometry
using mCherry. PCR followed by capillar electrophoresis was used to
analyze the DNA integrity of the targeted genome regions. Multiple
primers were used to confirm the maximum fragment size resulting from
CRISPR/Cas3 activity from each side of the selected region.
Results: Electrophoresis results show that under our experimental
conditions, deleted regions can span up to 50 kb from the protospacer
adjacent motif (PAM) site. When the GART gene is targeted, a smear
composed of numerous bands is observed, compared to the untreated
condition. Additionally, using two flanking gRNA results in an increased
number of fragments compared to the single-gRNA condition. However,
the number of fragments of identical size is higher when using a single
gRNA. In contrast, when targeting the DONSON gene, the gene editing
effect is more pronounced when two flanking gRNA are used. This effect
leads to a decrease in mRNA expression levels of both genes, particularly
when both flanking gRNAs are used.
Conclusion: The CRISPR/Cas3 gene editing system can generate a
characteristic banding pattern when using two gRNA flanking a cluster
that includes two genes associated with the Down Syndrome phenotype,
suggesting that we can delete the whole 85 kb gene cluster and reduce
the expression of both genes.
Funds: ISCII through Miguel Servet contract (CPII018/00002) and
FIS (PI20/00405 and PI23/00860), co-founded by European Union;
FI18/00009; MV21/00086; GVA CIACIF/2021/051; IDI-20210916;
CIAPOT/2022/18; CIAPOT/2022/15.
F-166
Developmental Programming of Pancreatic Cancer in Males. Vivi
Parecki, Ryan James, Natalie Goering, Kevin Burnfeind, Mayu Morita,
Terry Morgan∗. Oregon HS University, Portland, OR, United States.
Introduction: The in utero environment has the most significant impact on
fetal epigenetic programming and common pregnancy complications like
fetal growth restriction (FGR) are known to impact this process more in
males than females. We hypothesize that fetal programming may increase
cancer risk by affecting tissue-specific epigenetic programming of the
tumor microenvironment and immune response to neoplasia. To explore
this hypothesis, our objective was to compare pancreatic epigenetic
profiles and pancreatic cancer staging in males compared with females
in a physiologic mouse model of FGR.
Methods: We micro-dissected the whole pancreas from age-matched male
and female wild-type progeny from the Agtdup gene-titration model of
FGR, extracted DNA, and performed whole genome bisulfite sequencing
(WGBS) to compare sex-specific epigenomic profiles from 6 litters. We
also performed orthotopic pancreatic tail injections of murine pancreatic
cancer cells (million cells/30ul) as described by our group to test for
variance in cancer growth and metastases in a separate cohort of sib-pairs.
Reproducible variance in the epigenome was analyzed by unsupervised
clustering and nonparametric rank ordering with a false discovery rate
set at 5%. Pancreatic cancer outcomes were compared by tumor size,
grade, microenvironmental histologic differences, and metastatic spread
by day 10 post injection.
Results: We observed significantly larger tumor growth in males compared
with their female siblings (~2x, p<0.05) with more metastases to the liver
and dermal surgical site. Tumor microenvironment histology revealed
more acute inflammation in females instead of chronic inflammation with
plasma cells seen in males.
Conclusion: The male response to developmental programming of
the pancreas is different than their female siblings. They are more
susceptible to tumor growth and spread, which may be related to variance
in microenvironmental response. Ongoing studies now include male
castration controls and comparison between FGR and non-FGR groups.
F-167
Knowledge and Attitudes Regarding Pharmacogenetic Testing
Among Pregnant Persons. Salisha Marryshow Batson†, Elizabeth A
Jasper, Catherine Gascoigne, Sarah Jones, Darlene Fountain, Digna R
Velez Edwards∗. Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN,
United States.
Introduction: Most pharmacogenetic research has been performed in
non-pregnant, older adult populations of European ancestry. Robust
data is needed to improve health equity and support pharmacogenetic
implementation in pregnant persons, particularly those of color. We aimed
to explore the knowledge and attitudes toward pharmacogenetic testing
in pregnant persons
Methods: We recruited pregnant persons at Vanderbilt University Medical
Center (VUMC). Participants were aged 18 or older, currently 12 to 30
weeks pregnant, intended to deliver at VUMC, agreed to pharmacogenetic
testing, and had a VUMC online patient portal account. Participants
completed a survey, which included questions on demographics,
socioeconomic factors, lifestyle, health and pregnancy history, and
knowledge of pharmacogenetics.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 211A
Friday Posters
Results: Four hundred and thirty-two pregnant persons enrolled.
Though most of the study population identified as White (84.5%),
sizable portions identified as Hispanic or Latino (7.2%), Black (6.7%),
or other or multiple races (8.6%). Over half had some college education,
attended a technical or vocational school, or had a bachelor’s degree.
While over 90% of participants stated that their health was good or
better, many reported having a chronic condition, and roughly two-thirds
regularly take at least one prescription medication. Experiencing a side
effect was relatively common (44.4%) and often bothered individuals at
least somewhat. Of those who experience a side effect, 84.8% reported
stopping a medication due to side effects. Participants believed that genes
contributed to how you respond to a prescribed medication at least a little
(90.0%). Almost all participants were familiar with basic terms, like DNA,
chromosomes, and genes, but fewer (<50.0%) reported familiarity with
more complex terminology, including pharmacogenetics, metabolizer
status, and precision medicine. When asked about their agreement to
statements on potential benefits of pharmacogenetic testing, over 90% of
individuals agreed or strongly agreed that pharmacogenetic test results
would help them and their doctor make decisions about their treatment.
Most participants agreed or strongly agreed that pharmacogenetic testing
would lessen the likelihood of experiencing side effects (67.3%), help
their doctor decide which medications would be most likely to treat their
illness (86.2%), the strength or dose of medication that would be best or
safest (85.3%), why they or a family member does not tolerate or respond
to certain medications (84.8%) and help them live a better life (70.2%).
However, half of participants did not have an opinion on if testing should
be routinely performed.
Conclusion: Most pregnant individuals are familiar with pharmacogenetic
testing and have favorable perspectives on its use to manage medication
side effects.
F-168
Optimizing Electrode Placement for Uterine Peristalsis Imaging
(UPI). Hansong Gao, Meng Jiang, Yuelin Li, Zichao Wen, Yong Wang.
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Uterine Peristalsis Imaging (UPI) is a noninvasive
electrophysiological technique used to quantify the electrical activation
patterns of uterine peristalsis during the menstrual cycle with high spatial
and temporal resolutions. It collects electrical signals from the body’s
surface to reconstruct the electrical activities underlying uterine peristalsis
on the uterine surface. The effectiveness of UPI heavily depends on how
the electrodes are placed across the body surface to properly sample
spatial-temporal electrical fields to support accurate UPI computation.
However, the current electrode placement strategy requires a large number
of electrodes (128) on the torso without systematic optimization. This
study aims to optimize the number and placement of electrodes without
compromising the UPI quality.
Methods: To assess the impact of body surface electrode placement on
UPI imaging accuracy, we established a “golden standard” of uterine
peristalsis patterns based on the UPI results generated from the full
128 electrodes. Then, we performed UPI reconstruction with subsets
(from 120 to 64) of the full 128 electrodes based on different electrode
selection strategies. We compared these UPI results to the “golden
standard.” Three electrode selection strategies, including the Distancebased
method, Minimum Nonzero Eigenvalue Pursuit (MNEP), and
Maximal Projection on Minimum Eigenspace (MPME), were compared
by computing the correlation (CC) and relative error (RE) compared to
the “golden standard”.
Results: The MPME method consistently outperformed the other two
methods. In most cases, the MPME method showed a steady trend with
varying electrode numbers, maintaining good accuracy even with only 64
electrodes (minimum CC ≈ 0.9 and maximum RE ≈ 0.5). The distancedbased
method (minimum CC ≈ 0.4 and maximum RE ≈ 1.2) and MNEP
(minimum CC ≈ 0.86 and maximum RE ≈ 0.5) showed lower correlation
and higher relative error across different electrode numbers.
Conclusion: Our study evaluated the MPME method in the context of UPI
for optimized electrode placement, demonstrating superior performance
compared to the current electrode placement method used in UPI. This
developed electrode placement technique can be translated and used in
other electrophysiological imaging systems, such as Electrocardiographic
Imaging (ECGI) and Electromyometrial Imaging (EMMI), to enhance
accuracy and robustness.
F-169
Digitally Enabled AI-Interpreted Salivary Based Ovulation Prediction:
Feasibility Study. Elizabeth Peebles,1,2 William Finlay,3 Thao-Mi Nguyen,4
Samuel Barrett,3 Hemanth Kandula,5 Carrie Sarcione,1 Kaitlyn James,2 Hadi
Shafiee,5 Shruthi Mahalingaiah.1,2 1Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public
Health, Boston, MA, United States; 2Mass General Hospital, Boston,
MA, United States; 3Northeastern University, Boston, MA, United States;
4Darmouth College, Hanover, NH, United States; 5Brigham and Women’s
Hospital, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: Females with irregular or unpredictable cycles, including
those with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), have limited options
for validated at-home ovulation prediction due to existing test reliance
on regular menstrual cycles physiology with a predictable mid-cycle
luteinizing hormone (LH) surge. Research on populations with irregular
menstruation and PCOS can be challenging due to the duration and
frequency of menstrual cycles. Artificial intelligence (AI) holds potential
to address this health deficit via a smartphone-based salivary ferning
ovulation test.
Methods: This study determined the feasibility for participants with
diverse menstrual cycle lengths to complete study tasks designed to
train and develop an AI model for salivary-based ovulation prediction.
Participants were recruited for two menstrual cycles where retention,
engagement, and adherence were evaluated. Participation entailed
remotely collecting and uploading daily data (saliva, LH values), attending
lab visits, and returning saliva samples.
Results: Of the 133 females recruited from February to October 2023 via
targeted patient messages and a public research website, 69 were eligible
(age 19 to 35 years at enrollment, currently menstruating, able to read/
comprehend English, weigh more than 110 pounds, have an active primary
care or gynecological provider, and able to commute to the hospital
campus within 10 days of an ovulatory event). Of those who received a
Study Kit, 57% (n=17) began data collection, 31% (n=9) provided data
for one menstrual cycle, and 24% (n=7) completed the study. Throughout
the study, 40 people were lost to follow-up, and 19 people withdrew,
citing menstrual irregularity, ineligibility, lack of time, and stress related
to observed anovulation. Respondents reported challenges impacting data
collection and submission, such as cycle irregularity, daily task demand,
travel complications, and technical difficulties.
Conclusion: To optimize participant completion, the study needs a more
targeted recruitment message to address the high ineligibility status, to
streamline study procedures to ease participant burden, and to incorporate
menstrual health education to ameliorate the potential stressful impacts of
observing anovulation. After optimization, when scaled, this study design
will provide an AI model with sufficient data to develop a smartphonebased
ovulation predictor specifically tested on females with irregular or
unpredictable cycles, including those with PCOS.
F-170
Understanding the Attitudes Regarding Research of Women of
Underrepresented Racial and Ethnic Populations and the Factors
That Influence Their Willingness to Participate in Clinical Research.
Noralbis Barrientos, Estefania Ferrer, Anika Heuberger, Deepthi Varma,
Kylie Finkelstein, Carl J. Pepine, Adetola Louis-Jacques. University of
Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States.
Introduction: Despite significant advancements in clinical research,
underrepresented racial and ethnic communities participate in clinical
research at disproportionately low rates. This underrepresentation creates
gaps in the applicability and generalizability of research findings, which
may exacerbate existing health disparities. Our study objectives are to
understand the attitudes of racial and ethnic underrepresented women in
clinical research and to identify the factors that influence clinical research
participation.
212A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Methods: Nineteen semi-structured virtual interviews were conducted in
English and Spanish with women from underrepresented racial and ethnic
backgrounds recruited from WARRIOR study, a cardiovascular disease
secondary prevention trial focused on women. The Social Ecological
Model served as a framework for guiding interviews that focused on
participants’ attitudes toward clinical research and the factors influencing
their own or their community members’ willingness to participate.
Interviews were transcribed, and a deductive content analysis approach
was utilized for data analysis using ATLAS.tiTM software. In the first
coding cycle, a consensus-based method was applied to develop a code
list used for all transcripts. In the second coding cycle, similar codes were
categorized to identify themes and subthemes.
Results: Participants understood that research serves a valuable purpose,
with many highlighting their willingness to participate to advance
healthcare for future generations and increase their own awareness.
However, most had not participated in research because “no one asked”
them, and they did not know anyone involved in research. While
participants did not prioritize the racial or ethnic identity of the recruiter,
they emphasized the importance of trustworthiness and preferred their
medical personnel to introduce the research study. Some participants
noted that members of their community might feel more comfortable
being recruited in their native language or by someone of the same gender.
Mistrust of public advertisements, driven by the widespread presence of
scams, makes them especially wary of unfamiliar companies or sources,
causing them to disregard invitations to participate. Participants found
recruitment locations to be highly influential, favoring healthcare settings
over public spaces.
Conclusion: It is essential to understand the attitudes of underrepresented
racial and ethnic populations and the factors that inhibit or promote
their willingness to participate. Gaining these insights will allow for
the development of more inclusive recruitment strategies and foster
greater diversity in clinical research, ultimately leading to applicable and
generalizable findings.
F-171
Hypertensive Crises and Its Complications in Early Pregnant vs Non-
Pregnant Patients with Chronic Hypertension. Stephanie Schreiber†,1
Rachel Harrison∗,2 Calla Holmgren,2 Renata Mukai†,3 Karlie Snead†.1
1Ascension St. Alexius, Hoffman Estates, IL, United States; 2Advocate
Christ Medical Center, Oak Lawn, IL, United States; 3University of Illinois
at Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Hypertensive crisis is a common complication of chronic
hypertension and is associated with many adverse complications. This has
previously been studied outside of pregnancy, but has not been compared
to early pregnant women. We aim to compare the risk of hypertensive
crisis and its associated complications between non-pregnant women
with chronic hypertension and early pregnant women with chronic
hypertension.
Methods: Retrospective cohort study comparing pregnant women with
chronic hypertension to non-pregnant women with chronic hypertension
using the National Inpatient Sample (NIS) from 2017-2020 through
HCUP/AHRQ. We included all women aged 11-50 and pregnant women
less than twenty weeks gestation. Among those hospitalized, we assessed
the risk of hypertensive crisis and its complications including seizure,
stroke, pulmonary edema, posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome
(PRES), and length of hospital stay. Statistical analysis was performed
using Stata version 17.0 via student’s T test, Chi2 analysis, and logistic
regression to control for confounders.
Results: Out of over 950,000 women subjects with chronic hypertension,
19,898 were pregnant. Non-pregnant were more likely to be older, obese,
tobacco users, and have diabetes mellitus (p < 0.001). The incidence of
hypertensive crises was higher in the pregnant population (11.8% vs 7.1%,
p < 0.001) which persisted when controlling for confounders (aOR 1.55,
95%CI 1.48-1.62). Pregnant subjects were less likely to have seizures
and thrombotic strokes, but more likely to have pulmonary edema.
When presenting in hypertensive crisis, pregnant subjects had lower
rates of seizures, thrombotic strokes, and PRES. There was no significant
difference in risk of hemorrhagic strokes or length of hospital stay when
presenting in or out of a hypertensive crisis.
Conclusion: Pregnancy is an independent risk factor for hypertensive
crises before twenty weeks’ gestation. Complications during hypertensive
crises including seizures, thrombotic strokes, and PRES, were less
common in pregnancy.
F-172
Difference Between Observed and Expected Developmental Features
on Standardized Study Ultrasound and Risk of Miscarriage in a
Prospective Pregnancy Cohort. Alexandra C Sundermann,1 Katherine
E Hartmann,2 Velez Edwards R Digna∗.1 1Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, TN, United States; 2University of Kentucky, Lexington,
KY, United States.
Introduction: Days to weeks may pass between when normal pregnancy
development stops and when miscarriage is recognized. A discrepancy
between expected and observed features on ultrasound can be detected
prior to symptom onset and could serve as a clinically quantifiable
predictor of loss. We estimated the risk associated with the difference
between expected and observed gestational age on standardized study
ultrasounds and miscarriage.
Methods: Participants in a community-based, prospective pregnancy
cohort were recruited preconceptionally or in early pregnancy. Participants
underwent a standardized study ultrasound targeted for the sixth week
of gestation based on self-report of last menstrual period (LMP). Those
who had symptoms of miscarriage at time of study ultrasound were
excluded from analyses. We calculated the difference between LMP-based
gestational age and ultrasound-based gestational age at study ultrasound.
Cox proportional hazard models were used to estimate the association
between this difference (modeled using restricted cubic splines) and
miscarriage. To account for survival bias, participants entered analyses
at gestational age at ultrasound and contributed time until pregnancy
outcome. To assess for effect modification, analyses were stratified by
week of pregnancy and developmental state observed on ultrasound.
Results: Among 4,935 participants, the median difference between
observed and expected gestational age at study ultrasound was one day
(inter-quartile range: -1, 5) and 9.3% of pregnancies ended in miscarriage.
Miscarriage risk increased exponentially with each additional day expected
and observed gestational age differed (p<0.001). This association persisted
when stratifying by week of ultrasound and was more pronounced among
pregnancies with a measurable crown-rump length. A difference of more
than three days between ultrasound and LMP-based dating was associated
with a 5-fold increased risk of miscarriage (hazard ratio [HR] 5.34, 95%
confidence interval [CI] 4.37, 6.52) and a difference of more than five
days was associated with a greater than six-fold increased risk (HR 6.99,
95% CI 5.78, 8.44).
Conclusion: Increasing difference between expected and observed
gestational age on early pregnancy ultrasound among asymptomatic
patients strongly associates with miscarriage risk. This clinically
quantifiable measure can inform concern for pregnancy loss prior to
symptom onset among women who know their LMP.
F-173
Intra-Ovarian PRP Infusion Nearly Doubled the Number of Blastocysts
and Quadrupled the Yield of Euploid Blastocysts Per Retrieval in
Low Prognosis IVF Patients. Sarah Catherine Rubin†,1 Kaleb Noruzi†,1
Emily Chen†,1 Alexis Greene∗,2 Martin Keltz∗.1,2 1New York Medical
College, Valhalla, NY, United States; 2WestMed Reproductive Services,
Purchase, NY, United States.
Introduction: While there are studies exploring intra-ovarian PRP for
ovarian rejuvenation in patients with diminished ovarian reserve, few
describe the optimal population in which PRP improves the number of
euploid embryos. This study describes the effect of intra-ovarian PRP on
IVF outcomes in patients with prior poor euploid yield following IVF.
Methods: A single-institution retrospective cohort study, between August
2022 and August 2024 where all patients underwent intraovarian PRP
infusion following a failed IVF cycle. All freeze-all PGT-A IVF cycles
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 213A
Friday Posters
analyzed were within 6 months of the procedure. The first IVF cycle
following PRP was compared to the IVF cycle immediately prior to
the procedure with paired t-tests, while all cycles were compared with
unpaired statistics. The primary outcome was the number and percentage
of euploid blastocysts per retrieval. Secondary outcomes included: the
number of blastocysts, the number and percentage of euploid and mosaic
(E+M) embryos, and aneuploid embryos.
Results: 31 subjects were included. Mean age and initial AMH were
38.1±3.2 and 1.8±1.5 respectively. PRP led to an increase in blastocysts
from 1.5±1.8 to 2.8±2.8 (p=0.002) in the paired data, and in the number
of E+M embryos from 0.2±0.4 to 1±1.3 (p=0.004). The number and
percentage of euploids increased from 0.16±0.4 to 0.84±1.1 (p=0.003)
and 8.6%±22.3 to 23.2%±28.5, (p=0.04) respectively. There was no
improvement in the number of mature oocytes or aneuploids. In the
unpaired data, the 40 cycles prior to and 39 cycles after PRP resulted in
an increased number of blastocysts from 1.5±1.6 to 2.5±2.5 (p=0.04).
The number of euploids increased from 0.15±0.4 to 0.77±1.1 (p=0.001)
and the number of E+M increased from 0.25±0.44 to 1±1.3 (p=0.001).
The percentage of euploids and the percentage of E+M increased
from 9.1%±25 to 24%±30 (p=0.02) and 15%±30 to 34%±40 (p=0.02)
respectively. For patients with an AMH ≥ 1, the number of euploids
increased 8-fold from 0.15±0.4 to 1.2±1.3 (p=0.002) and the percentage
of euploids quadrupled from 6.7%±17 to 32%±30 (p=0.007). The number
of E+M increased 7-fold from 0.2±0.4 to 1.4±1.5 (p=0.004). For patients
less than 40 years old, the number of blastocysts, euploids, and E+M
increased, 2-fold, 6-fold, and 5-fold respectively. For patients with an
AMH < 1 (n=9) there was no benefit after PRP as euploid yield decreased
from 0.2±0.4 and 0.1±0.3 per retrieval. For patients ≥ 40 years-old (n=12)
the number of euploids after PRP increased from 0.08±0.29 to 0.17±0.39,
but did not achieve significance (p=0.55).
F-174
Taxonomic Characterisation of Choline and Carnitine Utilising
species in Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes and the Impact of Their
Trimethylamine Metabolites on Placental Function. Priscilla Day-
Walsh†,1 S. Saha∗,2 S. Rodriguez-Cuenca∗,1 J. Bittor†,1 D. Angelova†,1
P. Kroon∗,3 E. Cook∗,1 K. Stephens†,1 D Stephen Charnock-Jones∗.1
1University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom; 2Quadram
Institute, Norwich, United Kingdom; 3University of Cambridge, Norwich,
United Kingdom.
Introduction: The microbiome is an important regulator of physiology,
and it changes during pregnancy but the reasons for this are unclear.
Carnitine and choline deficiencies occur in pre-mature infants, although
the implications of microbial choline and carnitine consumption remain
to be understood. Their trimethylamine (TMA/TMAO) metabolites may
also affect placental function.
Methods: We investigated the abundance of choline and carnitine
utilising species in maternal and infant gut microbiome using taxonomic/
metagenomic databases (UniProtKB, NCBI, Gmrepo2). We assessed
inter-gestational levels of precursors and metabolites in maternal blood
(n-12) and in cord blood (n=12) and placenta (n=26) at birth, using
samples from the “Detecting Group B Streptococcus infection and the
Pregnancy Outcome Prediction studies” and LC-MS-MS. Effects TMA/
TMAO on human primary trophoblast respiration were assessed using
Mitostress test (n=9).
Results: 561 species were identified in the maternal gut microbiome.
Choline and carnitine utilising species accounted for 17% of all Firmicutes,
40% Proteobacteria and 26% Actinobacteria. The relative abundances of
choline and carnitine utilising species including E. coli, P. Aeruginosa and
C. Fundii were higher in pre-term than in term infants (Mann-Whittney
test = P≤0.000001)). Choline increased (P≤ 0.05) and carnitine decreased
with advancing gestation (P≤0.01). TMAO was present in maternal (3.36,
(0.92-12.24 μmol/L)) and cord serum (2.27(0.81-7.63 μmol/L)). TMA
was present in maternal (1.1(0.2-5.5 μmol/L)) and cord serum (3.7(0.6-
10.8)) and in the placenta (2.2(0.98-3.8 mg/g), but its identity could not be
verified with certainty. TMAO had a bi-phasic effect on trophoblast basal
respiration (BR), with a linear increase at 3.125 -12.5 μmol/L from which
BR plateaued. These effects were mainly in female placentas (n=5) with no
effects in males. TMA had a bi-phasic effect on BR (EC50 = 2.9 μmol/L)
at lower concentrations. In females there was a dose dependent increase
in BR at 3.125-12.5 μmol/L from which it plateaued (EC50 =10.72.9
μmol/L). TMA had no effects in males. Overall, TMAO and TMA had
no significant effect on BR due to large inter-individual variabilities. Ten
more placentas would be required reach significance.
Conclusion: These observations have implications for alterations in
microbial choline and carnitine utilisation in pregnancy with high
consumption leading to adverse outcomes such as pre-mature births.
Sex differences in microbial composition/metabolism are widely known
and may point to discrepancies in trophoblast responses and pregnancy
outcomes in males and females.
F-175
The Association of Gestational Age Discrepancy in the FGR Fetus with
SGA Neonates. Madeline J Epsten†,1 Ashish Premkumar,2 Anam Farooqui,2
Vanya Manthena,3 Emily Guernsey,3 Juliana Sung,1 Anna McCormick,1
Samantha de los Reyes∗.1 1Rush University Medical Center, Chicago,
IL, United States; 2University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States;
3Pritzker School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Fetal growth restriction (FGR) is a leading cause of fetal
morbidity and mortality affecting up to 10% of all pregnancies. FGR at
anatomy ultrasound (US) is inconsistently defined by gestational age (GA)
discrepancy from established estimated due date (EDD), or by estimated
fetal weight (EFW) <10%, abdominal circumference (AC) <10%, or both.
Our objective is to study the association of measured GA discrepancy
in FGR fetuses at time of anatomy US with small for gestational age
(SGA) neonates. A secondary objective is to evaluate the risk of FGR at
subsequent ultrasounds and adverse perinatal outcomes.
Methods: We performed a retrospective cohort study of pregnant patients
from two academic institutions with singleton, non-anomalous gestations
at anatomy US performed from 18w0d-21w6d with a diagnosis of FGR
from January 2021- December 2023. The exposure of interest was
measured GA>10 days from EDD as compared to measured GA<10
days from EDD. Our primary outcome was a diagnosis of SGA neonate.
Secondary outcomes included the risk of FGR at subsequent ultrasound
and the risk of adverse perinatal outcomes. Univariable analysis was
performed to evaluate the exposure with baseline maternal demographic
and clinical variables. Multivariable logistic regression was performed
with a-priori covariates. Included in the model were age and race/ethnicity.
Results: 68 patients met inclusion criteria. 13 (19%) with measured
GA>10 days and 55 (81%) with FGR with measured GA<10 days. There
were no differences in demographic and clinical characteristics between
the groups. FGR with measured GA>10 days had a lower weight at
anatomy US compared to measured GA < 10 days (1% vs 7%, p <0.001)
and a lower weight at delivery (2400g vs 2680g, p = 0.03). In univariable
analysis, more patients with measured GA>10 days had SGA neonates
(53.9% vs 45.5%) but these findings were not significant (RR 1.4, 95%
CI 0.42, 4.71) and persisted in multivariable analysis, (aRR 1.48, 95%
CI 0.43, 5.09). In univariable analysis of secondary outcomes, FGR with
measured GA>10 days were more likely to have FGR at subsequent
ultrasounds and 5-minute Apgar score <3. There were no differences in
other maternal and perinatal outcomes.
Conclusion: Measured GA>10 days in patients with FGR at anatomy scan
was not associated with an increased risk of SGA neonate at delivery as
compared to <10 days but was associated with an increased risk of FGR
at subsequent ultrasounds and 5-minute Apgars scores <3.
214A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
S-001
Emergency Cerclage: A Study of Complications, Pregnancy Outcomes
and Associated Vaginal Microbe-Immune Response. Ryan Laurence
Love†,1 Khumo Karas,1 Belen Gimeno-Molina,1,2 Yun S Lee,1 Sherrianne
Ng,1 Goncalo dos Santos Correia,1 Denise Chan,1 Holly Lewis,1 Richard G
Brown,1 Vasso Terzidou,1 Tiong Ghee Teoh,1 David A MacIntyre,1,3 Phillip
R Bennett,1 Lynne Sykes∗.1,2 1March of Dimes European Prematurity
Research Centre, London, United Kingdom; 2The Parasol Foundation
Centre for Women’s Health and Cancer Research, London, United
Kingdom; 3Robinson Research Institute, Adelaide, Australia.
Introduction: Emergency cerclage represents an attempt to prevent
extreme preterm delivery or pregnancy loss by surgically closing an
open cervix. Current guidance related to patient selection is variable,
and there is limited published evidence reporting on complications
and outcomes, making patient selection and counselling challenging.
We have previously demonstrated that emergency cerclage failure is
associated with reduced relative abundance of Lactobacillus species and
high levels of G. vaginalis. The aim of this study is to assess procedurerelated
complications and pregnancy outcomes in a large cohort, and
investigate host-microbe immune response in a subset of women receiving
emergency cerclage.
Methods: Patient characteristics, complications and pregnancy outcomes
were reported from routinely collected data on women undergoing
emergency cerclage between 2017-2024 (n=105). A subset of women
also had vaginal microbiota composition assessed using metataxonomic
profiling of bacterial 16S rRNA genes, and cervicovaginal fluid (CVF)
cytokine and complement levels analysed using Luminex immunoassays
(n=22). A comparison was made with women who delivered at term
without the need for intervention (n=42).
Results: A total of 105 patients underwent emergency cervical cerclage
(median gestation 21 weeks at insertion). There was a 76.6% live-birth
rate, with 33.3% of patients delivering at term (>37 weeks gestation),
and 26.0% <24 weeks, with a median latency of 39 days. Complications
included intraoperative rupture of membranes (n=6, 6.7%) and
haemorrhage >100mls (n=4, 3.8%). There were no cases of bladder
injury. Significant associations were observed between a shorter latency
to delivery (<21 days) and raised neutrophil count (p=0.004), C-reactive
protein (p=0.02), and cervical dilatation >1cm (p=0.005) at the time of
cerclage insertion. Vaginal microbiota demonstrated an overrepresentation
of CST III and IV in those requiring emergency cerclage, when compared
to a gestational age-matched control cohort (CSTI vs CST III/IV, p=0.004).
CVF concentrations of IL-1β, IL-6 and C3b were significantly increased
in women requiring an emergency cerclage (p<0.05).
Conclusion: The potential benefits of prolonging pregnancy outweigh
the procedure related risks of emergency cerclage. Overrepresentation of
adverse microbial composition and a pro-inflammatory immune milieu
supports the need for exploring the role of a live-biotherapeutic as an
adjunct to emergency cerclage to improve pregnancy outcomes.
S-002
Unique Maternal Proteomes in the 2nd Trimester Distinguish Preterm
Birth Phenotypes. Chelsea Ann DeBolt,1 Paola A Lopez Zapana,2 Valerie
Riis,1 Douglas A Lauffenburger,2 Andrea G Edlow,3 Michal A Elovitz∗.1
1Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United States;
2Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, United States;
3Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB) is a leading cause of neonatal
morbidity and mortality and has distinct clinical phenotypes: spontaneous
PTB (sPTB) and medically-indicated PTB (mPTB). It is unclear if these
phenotypes have shared or distinct pathogenic processes. Thus, we aimed
to determine if 2nd trimester (TM) proteomic signatures were unique in
pregnant persons who eventually developed sPTB, mPTB, or term birth.
Methods: 2nd TM (16-24 weeks) maternal proteome was profiled using
SomaLogic SomaScan 7K assay from prospectively enrolled cohorts of
pregnant persons (N=359). 3 groups were compared: sPTB <35 weeks
(N=30), mPTB <35 weeks due to hypertensive disorders of pregnancy
(N=30), and controls (N=40), who were individuals who delivered at
term without medical or obstetrical comorbidities. From the larger cohort,
controls were frequency matched on body mass index, cohort type, and
race/ethnicity. Partial Least Square Discriminate Analysis (PLSDA) model
built with Elastic-Net selected features identified biomarkers to distinguish
mPTB/sPTB relative to controls. Reactome Pathway Enrichment Analyses
of identified biomarkers were performed.
Results: Those with mPTB had higher rates of chronic hypertension
(p<0.001), and those with sPTB had higher rates of prior sPTB (p=0.009)
vs controls. 121 proteins generated a model to distinguish mPTB vs
controls, and 183 proteins distinguished sPTB vs controls. Compared
to controls, mPTB pathway analyses revealed upregulation of MHC
Class I antigen processing, MAPK activation and RAS processing
and downregulation of cytokine signaling, FGFR2 activation, and IGF
transport regulation. In contrast, sPTB pathway analyses demonstrated
downregulation of cytokine signaling, interleukin signaling, and
extracellular matrix organization.
Conclusion: Unique maternal proteomes are associated with PTB
phenotypes months prior to the onset of PTB. Exploration of these
biological pathways as possible therapeutic targets to prevent PTB is
needed. Validation of select proteins may provide reliable biomarkers to
identify those at risk to facilitate precision-based therapies for specific
PTB phenotypes.
S-003
Exposure of the Cervical Epithelium to Gardnerella vaginalis and
Vaginal Polyamines Alters Macrophage Immune Responses: Evidence
for Cellular Crosstalk at the Host-Microbial Interface. Lauren Anton,
Kristin Klohonatz, Briana Ferguson, Kristin D Gerson∗. University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, United
States.
Introduction: Host-microbe interactions at the cervical epithelial barrier
modify reproductive health outcomes. Gardnerella vaginalis (GV), a
common vaginal anaerobe associated with dysbiosis, can activate the
innate immune system. The extent to which cellular crosstalk at this
interface alters immune responses has yet to be studied. Microbial
metabolites including polyamines can mitigate inflammation in diverse
cell types at other mucosal barriers. We aimed to determine 1) whether
exposure of the cervical epithelium to GV modifies NF-κB-mediated
immune responses and inflammasome activation in macrophages, and
2) how polyamines modify these paracrine processes.
Methods: Using an in vitro co-culture model, endocervical (endo) cells
were exposed to 107 CFUs of GV for 24h. Conditioned media (CM)
was sterile filtered and added to activated THP-1-derived macrophages
(MØs) for 24h. NF-κB-mediated proinflammatory cytokines (IL-8, IL-6,
TNFα) were assessed by ELISA (n=3/condition). To test inflammasome
activation, MØs were primed with LPS for 24h prior to adding CM.
IL-1β, an inflammasome activation marker, was assessed by ELISA. To
test effects of polyamines on epithelial-MØ crosstalk, endo cells were
treated with spermine (400uM) or putrescene (4mM) prior to GV. CM was
applied to MØs or LPS-primed MØs and cytokines assessed. For a subset
of experiments, endo cells were exposed to polyamines in the absence
of GV. LPS-primed MØs were treated with NLRP3 agonist, Nigericin,
prior to adding CM from polyamine-exposed endo cells. Differences were
compared by one-way ANOVA with correction for multiple comparisons.
Results: CM from GV-exposed endo cells induced IL-8, IL-6 and TNFα
(p<0.0001) in MØs. Differences were not due to baseline cytokine levels
in CM, as cytokine concentrations in CM-treated MØs were significantly
higher than in CM alone (p<0.05). LPS-primed MØs treated with CM
from GV-exposed endo cells induced IL-1β (p<0.0001). CM from endo
cells treated with polyamines prior to GV partially mitigated IL-8 (p<0.05)
and IL-1β induction (p<0.05) in MØs. CM from endo cells exposed to
putrescine alone mitigated nigericin-induced inflammasome activation
in MØs (p<0.01). A similar nonsignificant trend was seen with CM from
endo cells exposed to spermine alone.
Conclusion: Our data provide evidence of molecular crosstalk at the
cervical host-microbial interface. Exposure of the cervical epithelium to
a common vaginal anaerobe propagates an innate immune response in
macrophages through activation of NF-κB and inflammasome pathways.
Further work is needed to define secreted epithelial factors that drive
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 215A
Saturday Posters
these paracrine events. Vaginal polyamines constrain inflammation in the
epithelial barrier and may be leveraged in the future for their therapeutic
potential. R01HD114611 (KG)
S-004
Circulating CD8+ Memory T Cells Are Higher during Labor
in Multiparous Women with Spontaneous Labor Compared to
Nulliparous Women and Positively Correlate with CD8+ Memory
T Cells in Cord Blood. Olena Getsko†, Chi Chiu Wang∗, Leung Tak
Yeung∗. The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
Introduction: Human labor is a complex process influenced by various
factors, including the immune system. Immunological memory, the ability
of the immune system to remember previously encountered antigens, plays
a crucial role in the immune response and may contribute to differences in
labor progression between nulliparous and multiparous women. Ensuring
proper labor progression is crucial for optimizing maternal and fetal
outcomes, as prolonged labor can lead to severe complications for both
the mother and the baby. We hypothesize that multiparous women have
acquired immunological memory from their previous pregnancies, and
their CD8+ memory T cells can then initiate a stronger response, leading
to faster labor progress than nulliparous women.
Methods: A prospective longitudinal study was conducted on both
nulliparous (n=26) and multiparous women (n=26) who gave birth
spontaneously. Peripheral blood samples were collected before labor and
during the latent and active phases of labor. Cord blood was collected
after birth. Their circulating CD8+ memory T cell profile, including the
population of memory cell subtypes and activation status, co-stimulatory
and co-inhibitory molecule expression, were analyzed using multicolor
flow cytometry. The Mann-Whitney U test was used for cross-sectional
analysis, while the Friedman test with Dunn’s post-hoc test was employed
for longitudinal change during labor in each parity group. The Spearman
correlation coefficient was used for correlation analysis.
Results: Before labor onset, the multiparous group had a higher proportion
of activated stem cell memory (TSCM CD69+) (26.6% [19.3-41.0] vs 41.0%
[27.0-51.2];P=0.04) and follicular helper memory cells (TFHM) (4.7%
[3.3-5.5] vs 6.0% [4.7-8.9];P=0.03) than the nulliparous group. During
the latent and active phases TSCM CD69+ (23.6% [16.7-41.7] vs 34.1%
[24.0-62.0];P=0.04); (33.5% [20.4-52.0] vs [43.9% [33.0-70.7];P=0.04)
and TFHM cells (5.0% [3.5-6.6] vs 6.4% [4.8-8.5];P=0.03), (4.7% [4.0-
5.9] vs 7.1% [5.7-10.1]; P<0.001) remained higher in the multiparous
group. Both parity groups showed a positive correlation between effector
memory CD8+ T cells in maternal blood across study time points and
cord blood (P<0.05).
Conclusion: Compared to nulliparous women, the multiparous women
had higher proportions of TSCM CD69+ and TFHM cells before labor during
latent and active phases. Such a differential circulating CD8+ memory
T cell profile between the parity groups suggests that previous exposure
to fetal antigens may have induced an immunological memory in certain
T cells, which were then reactivated during labor in their subsequent
pregnancies. The positive correlation between maternal and cord blood
CD8+ memory T cells might indicate fetal involvement in the labor
process.
S-005
Extracellular Vesicles Diffuse Through Mucus to Mediate Microbe-
Host Interactions in the Female Reproductive Tract. Darby Steinman†,
Hannah C Zierden†. University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United
States.
Introduction: A healthy vaginal microbiome is considered one dominated
by lactobacilli, which maintains epithelial barrier integrity and a low pH
environment. In contrast, vaginal dysbiosis describes a polymicrobial
environment characterized by epithelial shedding, high vaginal pH, and
increased inflammation. During pregnancy, vaginal dysbiosis has been
implicated in preterm birth, miscarriage, and adverse neonatal outcomes.
Previous hypotheses suggest that dysbiotic bacteria ascend into the vaginal
environment to cause inflammation and these adverse obstetric outcomes.
However, our previous work suggests that whole bacteria are too large
to travel through cervicovaginal mucus (CVM). Instead, we propose that
bacterial extracellular vesicles (bEVs) may diffuse through CVM and
deliver microbial signals to host cells, altering the function of female
reproductive tract tissues. Here, we quantify bEV mobility in human
CVM and evaluate the inflammatory response from female reproductive
tract cells in response to bEV exposures.
Methods: Vaginal bacteria were cultured in anaerobic conditions. bEVs
were isolated via differential ultracentrifugation and characterized via
nanoparticle tracking analysis. CVM samples were self-collected from
participants and characterized via wet mount, Nugent score, and pH.
To assess bacteria and bEV mobility in mucus, we captured videos of
fluorescently labeled bEVs and whole bacteria in CVM samples and
calculated mean squared displacements using image analysis software.
To evaluate bEV-mediated functional changes in female reproductive
tract cells, we dosed cultures with bEVs for 24 h and used commercially
available kits to determine viability and cytokine production.
Results: G. vaginalis cultures produced fewer bEVs than L. crispatus
cultures (p = 0.0156) and M. mulieris cultures (p = 0.0110). G. vaginalis
bEVs and M. mulieris bEVs were smaller than L. crispatus bEVs and L.
iners bEVs (p ≤ 0.0182, p < 0.0001, respectively). G. vaginalis bEVs had
a more neutral ζ-potential compared to L. crispatus bEVs (p = 0.0317), L.
iners bEVs (p = 0.0072), and M. mulieris bEVs (p = 0.0257). We observed
increased bEV mobility compared to whole bacteria. In placental cells,
>80% of M. mobiluncus bEVs were internalized after 24 h. This was
significantly more than bEVs from other species.
Conclusion: Increased risk of obstetric indications in individuals with
vaginal dysbiosis may be facilitated in part by the ascension of EVs
through CVM, delivering cargoes to reproductive tissues. We report
increased mobility of bEVs through CVM, which would allow for bEVs
to reach reproductive tissues, affecting native functionality. Our results
suggest that bEVs are a vital mode of microbe-host communication to
upper levels of the female reproductive tract, and that these signaling
modalities could contribute to adverse obstetric and neonatal outcomes.
S-006
Modeling Early Events in Bacterial Chrioamnionitis Using an Organon-
Chip Model of the Maternal-Fetal Interface. Hannah Richards†,1
David Cliffel,1 Jennifer Gaddy,2 Alison J Eastman∗.2 1Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, TN, United States; 2Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, TN, United States.
Introduction: Inflammation in the gestational membranes
(chorioamnionitis or CAM) is often clinically silent until an adverse
outcome occurs, such as preterm prelabor rupture of membranes or
preterm birth. One of the most prevalent causes of CAM is infection with
the bacteria Group B Streptococcus (GBS).
Methods: Our laboratories have built an organ-on-chip model of the
maternal-fetal interface in the gestational membranes comprised of fetal
cytotrophoblasts (CTBs, or fetal chamber) in one chamber, maternal
decidual stromal cells (DSCs, or maternal chamber) in the other chamber,
both seeded in type IV collagen, and with their chambers separated by a
gelatin hydrogel. Both chambers are subjected to microfluidic flow across
the chambers to mimic sheer stress and nutrient and waste exchange. We
model acute GBS CAM by infecting the maternal chamber with GBS
(strain GB112) and comparing it to uninfected state or to a disseminated
GBS infection where both maternal and fetal chambers are infected. In
subsequent experiments, we seed both chambers with macrophages to
address how cells of the innate immune system affect the whole tissue
response to GBS infection.
Results: We hypothesized that acute, maternal-chamber CAM will have
different immune mediators elevated than disseminated, two-CAM, and
that the presence of macrophages will augment the magnitude of the
response. Using a fluorescent strain of GBS expressing GFP, we see that
infection in the absence of macrophages remains confined to the chamber
that was infected and does not spread on its own between chambers in our
timeframe of infection (24 hr). In our timeframe of macrophage addition
(24 hr), the macrophages do not migrate across the hydrogel to the other
chamber. In the absence of macrophages, after 24 hours of infection,
MMP9 is induced from the CTBs of the fetal side only when DSCs of
the maternal side are infected: infection of only the fetal side does not
216A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
significantly induce MMP9, but an acute infection of the maternal side or
disseminated infection affecting both sides does induce MMP9. IL-1β and
TNFα are induced exclusively in a disseminated infection and exclusively
from the CTBs. IL-6 is significantly induced from both DSCs and CTBs,
but only during disseminated infection. The presence of macrophages
increased IL-1β from the fetal chamber only, but during all infectious
models. This suggests that maternal DSCs are capable of suppressing
IL-1β from macrophages in the tissue microenvironment.
Conclusion: Our preliminary conclusions suggest that cells of the fetal
membranes are capable of responding to acute CAM in a different way
than from disseminated CAM, and that some microenvironments in
the gestational membranes help to suppress inflammation locally while
augmenting it in neighboring microenvironments.
S-007
Differential Expression of P-Glycoprotein and NHERF-1 and Their
Role in Modulating Inflammatory Responses at the Feto-Maternal
Interface. Ananth Kumar Kammala,1 Brinley Harrington,1 Tatipathy
Madhuri,1 Isidore Mushimiyimana,1 Richardson Lauren,1 Ramkumar
Menon∗.2 1The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, League
City, TX, United States; 2The University of Texas Medical Branch at
Galveston, Galveston, TX, United States.
Introduction: Pregnancy and labor are driven by inflammatory processes,
with dysregulated inflammation at the feto-maternal interface (FMi)
implicated in preterm labor. Transporter proteins, such as P-glycoprotein
(P-gp) and its adapter protein, sodium hydrogen exchanger regulatory
factor-1 (NHERF-1), play critical roles in maintaining cellular homeostasis
at the chorio-decidual interface. Our previous work demonstrated that
NHERF-1 modulates P-gp functional activity in chorion cells. This study
investigates the interplay between P-gp and NHERF-1 in modulating
inflammatory responses at the FMi under inflammatory conditions.
Methods: Maternal decidual cells (DECs) and fetal chorion trophoblast
cells (CTCs) were stimulated with LPS (100 ng/mL) for 24 hours to induce
inflammation. Comprehensive transcriptomic analysis was performed
to identify global changes in gene expression related to inflammatory
signaling pathways, including cytokine production, efflux regulation,
and cell adhesion pathways. This allowed us to observe alterations in the
expression of key proteins involved in maintaining cellular homeostasis
at the FMi, including P-gp and NHERF-1. Western blotting was used to
confirm changes at the protein level, while inflammatory status (ELISA:
IL-6, IL-8, TNF-alpha) and efflux activity were analyzed to evaluate
functional changes in response to inflammation.
Results: Transcriptomic analysis revealed significant alterations in
inflammatory pathways, including NF-kB and MAPK, in maternal DECs.
P-gp expression was significantly decreased (p<0.05), while NHERF-1
was increased (p<0.05), with no significant changes in CTCs. Western
blotting confirmed P-gp downregulation in DECs (p<0.01) and NHERF-1
upregulation in both DECs and CTCs (p<0.05). Inflammatory cytokine
production (IL-6, IL-8, TNF-alpha) was significantly elevated in DECs
(p<0.001) but unchanged in CTCs. Efflux assays showed reduced P-gp
activity in inflamed DECs (p<0.05), while CTCs exhibited enhanced
efflux activity. These results suggest that fetal CTCs may compensate
for maternal inflammatory stress, preserving fetal development during
inflammation.
Conclusion: Our findings demonstrate the differential regulation of P-gp,
NHERF-1, cytokine production, and efflux activity across the FMi. This
modulation, possibly influenced by NHERF-1, highlights the potential of
targeted therapies addressing P-gp and NHERF-1 interactions to manage
inflammation at the FMi.
S-008
Indolelactate Mitigates Anaerobe-Induced Inflammation in the Cervical
Epithelium: Potential Role for Lactobacillus crispatus-Derived Lactate
Derivatives in Immune Protection. Kristin Klohonatz, Briana Ferguson,
Lauren Anton, Kristin D Gerson∗. University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, United States.
Introduction: Interactions at the cervicovaginal host-microbial interface
modify reproductive outcomes, including, premature cervical remodeling
and preterm birth. Microbial components of this ecosystem, including
Lactobacillus crispatus (LC), support cervicovaginal health. Conversely,
anaerobes like Gardnerella vaginalis (GV) have been implicated in
pathologic processes. Metabolomics provides a biochemical lens through
which the complexities of host-microbial communication may be more
clearly discerned. We aimed to determine how metabolomic differences
at this interface modify host immune responses as a potential mechanism
underlying reproductive outcomes.
Methods: We used an in vitro host cell-microbial co-culture model.
Ectocervical and endocervical epithelial cells were treated with 107
CFUs of LC or GV for 24h. We conducted untargeted metabolomics
on cell culture media (n=3/condition). Log2transformed data were
analyzed by two-way ANOVA with calculation of false discovery rates.
Lactate derivatives hydroxyphenyllactate (HPA), phenyllactate (PLA),
and indolactate (ILA) were selected for further experimentation. A
concentration of 10mM was chosen for all based on dose curves and
physiologic ranges. Cervical epithelial cells were treated with 107 CFUs of
GV in the presence or absence of lactate derivatives for 24h. We measured
concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines IL-8, IL-1α, and IL-1β in cell
culture media by ELISA (n=3/condition). Differences were compared by
one-way ANOVA with Dunnett’s test for multiple comparisons.
Results: Metabolomic profiling revealed an increase in lactate and
lactate derivatives in cervical epithelial cells after treatment with LC
compared to GV and nontreated control. Lactate metabolites were
derived from aromatic amino acids, including tyrosine metabolite HPA,
phenylalanine metabolite PLA, tryptophan metabolite ILA, and histidine
metabolite imidazole lactate (q < 0.01 for all). Lactate derivative in vitro
experiments demonstrated induction of IL-8, IL-1α, and IL-1β by GV,
which was partially mitigated by ILA (p < 0.05) compared to nontreated
control. HPA and PLA did not modify GV-induction of the measured
proinflammatory cytokines.
Conclusion: Accumulation of aromatic acid-derived lactate metabolites
in reponse to LC likely reflects rapid glucose utilization. These metabolic
byproducts carry potential to modify host immune responses, as
demonstrated by ILA, to a common vaginal anaerobe. Our findings provide
novel mechanistic insight into how LC may confer immunoprotection.
Modification of this metabolic milieu may be leveraged as a novel
therapeutic strategy in the future to improve reproductive health outcomes.
University of Pennsylvania Research Foundation Award (KG)
S-009
Effect of Intrapartum Antibiotic Prophylaxis for Group B
Streptococcus on Cesarean Delivery Rate. Elizabeth A Eagle†,1 Stephanie
L Pierce∗,1 Sydney Mohr†,1 Kiki Greene†,1 Olivia Webb†,1 Jacqueline
Oh†,1 Erin Schone,1 Jennifer Peck,1 Edwards K Rodney∗.2 1University of
Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, United States;
2University of Florida College of Medicine, Gainsville, FL, United States.
Introduction: The cesarean delivery (CD) rate in the United States
increased from 5% in 1970 to around 32% recently. Since labor dystocia
is a major cause of CD and excessive inflammation (e.g. obesity and/
or chorioamnionitis) is associated with labor dystocia, we hypothesized
that intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis (IAP) against early onset neonatal
infection with group B streptococcus (GBS) may reduce the CD rate, by
decreasing subclinical and clinical infection-related inflammation. This
hypothesis was informed by data from a recent pilot trial evaluating broadspectrum
antibiotic prophylaxis initiated at the beginning of induction of
labor (IOL) that showed potential benefit in reducing the CD rate but only
in those not receiving IAP.
Methods: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of nulliparous
women who delivered singleton infants at or beyond 37 weeks of
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 217A
Saturday Posters
gestation after IOL from 1/1/20-12/31/2022. We excluded those with age
<15 or >49, prior delivery at or beyond 20 weeks, evidence of clinical
chorioamnionitis prior to IOL, or major fetal anomalies. The primary
outcome was CD rate. Secondary outcomes were maternal morbidities
including puerperal infection, postpartum hemorrhage, transfusion, ICU
admission, and hospital readmission, as well as a composite of neonatal
adverse outcomes.
Results: 1182 mother-infant dyads were included, 938 did not receive
IAP while 244 did. CD rate was similar between groups (25.8% vs.
27.9%; p=0.51). Adjusted relative risk (aRR) for CD was 0.95 (95%
CI 0.76-1.18). A composite of maternal outcomes was similar between
groups (aRR 0.98; 95% CI 0.70-1.38), as were individual components
of the composite (data not shown). The composite of neonatal adverse
outcomes was significantly lower in the IAP group (8.2% vs. 4.9%; aRR
0.51; 95% CI 0.29-0.93).
Conclusion: IAP does not appear to affect the CD rate. Additional
evaluation of the effect of antibiotic prophylaxis at the initiation of IOL
on the CD rate should be undertaken using the broad-spectrum regimen
used in the pilot trial.
S-010
Comparative Study of Female Reproductive Tract Infection in Women
with & without Assisted Pregnancy. Hafiza Faiza∗,1 umm-e-Majida
Khan∗,2 Anjum Sarwat∗,1 Maryam shaikh†.3 1Bhitai Dental & Medical
college Mirpurkhas, Mirpurkhas, Pakistan; 2Liaqat University Hospital
Medical Health Sciences, Jamshoro, Pakistan; 3Bilawal medical college
hospital, hyderabad, Pakistan.
Introduction: Reproductive tract infections (RTIs) are a major global
public health problem due to their high and rising prevalence. It has
a negative psychological impact on marriages and creates a lot of
complications with conception. This study aimed to compare the
prevalence and effects of reproductive tract infections between pregnant
women who got medical assistance and those who did not.
Methods: This pilot study was conducted in the Gynecology (OPD) of
Liaquat University hospital (LUMHS) and Umme Majida Reproductive
center Hyderabad Pakistan. We recruited 100 women who came with
gestational amenorrhea, and they were divided into two groups i-e group
A (50 women with assisted pregnancy) and Group B (50 women with nonassisted
pregnancy). The data was collected on predesign questionnaire,
including demographic details and laboratory parameters that includes
(CBC, GDM, HBAIC VDRL HVS, pap smear). The statistical analysis
was performed using SPSS 20.0.
Results: Among the 100 pregnant women in both groups, candidiasis
was the most common reproductive tract infection (50%) followed by
bacterial vaginosis (24%) T. vaginalis (10%), chlamydia (11%), and N.
gonorrhoeae (5%). However, the most common symptoms reported by
women in both groups were itching (28%), vaginal discharge (56%),
and abdominal discomfort (66%). The biochemical analysis showed the
significant difference in HBA1C value between group A (mean 6.704)
and group B (mean 6.286) with a p-value of 0.014. OGTT also showed
a significant (p-value of 0.020), raised in group A and impaired in group
B. Furthermore, in the comparison of lab tests and infections, the women
with candidiasis in group A displayed a greater range of HBA1C, OGTT,
ESR, and TLC than in group B. Overall, the ESR (p-value 0.747) and TLC
count (p-value 0.457) indicate no statistical significant difference between
two groups participants. The major causes of subfertility in both groups
were tubal factors and microbial infections, according to the analysis of
the etiology of subfertility, whereas endometriosis was identified as an
additional contributing factor in group A individuals. It was found that
both groups of pregnant women had a direct correlation between the
length of marriage and an increased risk of RTIs. In addition, a higher
rate of infections was associated with participants’ low socioeconomic
status, rural residency, low level of education, and recreational drug use.
Conclusion: RTIs were more common in longer-married women
who also reported recreational drug addiction, and this had a negative
psychological impact on their marriages. Furthermore, RTIs increased
the incidence of miscarriages and preterm births in women in group A
who received assisted pregnancy treatment (as reasons for primary and
secondary infertility).
S-011
Relationship Between the Vaginal Microbiome in Early Pregnancy and
Perinatal Complications. Keita Waki, Ryo Maekawa, Ryuji Kawaguchi,
Fuminori Kimura. Nara Medical University, Kashihara, Nara, Japan.
Introduction: The relationship between vaginal microbiome and
perinatal complications is becoming increasingly evident. Even within
the Lactobacillus genus, which has traditionally been considered a benign
bacterium by contributing to maintaining the vaginal environment,
some species have been suggested to be detrimental to the vaginal
environment. This study aimed to investigate the association between
vaginal microbiome in early pregnancy and perinatal complications using
microbiome analysis with a next-generation sequencer.
Methods: Forty-four cases (19 primiparous women and 25 multiparous
women) who delivered at our hospital from March 2023 to July 2023 were
included. Vaginal discharge samples collected in early pregnancy were
analyzed using the 16s rRNA V4 region to classify the vaginal microflora
(community state types: CSTs) and to examine its association with
miscarriage and preterm premature rupture of the membranes (PROM).
Results: The vaginal microbiome (CST) were CST-I (L.crispatus) in 15
cases, CST-II (L.gasseri) in 3 cases, CST-III (L.iners) in 10 cases, CST-IV
(dominated by anaerobic bacteria) in 12 cases, and CST-V (L.jensenii)
in 4 cases.Perinatal complications occurred in 2 cases with CST-III
(mid-trimester miscarriage and preterm delivery due to PROM), 1 case
with CST-IV (preterm delivery due to preterm PROM), and 1 case with
CST-V (L.jensenii 75%, L.iners 25%; mid-trimester miscarriage). Three
of these 4 cases were either dominated by or partially included L.iners.
Conclusion: The 16s rRNA V4 region enabled the identification of
Lactobacillus species. The presence of L.iners in the vaginal microbiome
in early pregnancy may be associated with an increased risk of midtrimester
miscarriage and preterm PROM.
S-012
Exofection of Transporter Proteins at the Feto-Maternal Interface.
Madhuri Tatiparthy†, Ananth Kumar Kammala∗, Lauren S Richardson∗,
Ramkumar Menon∗. University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston,
TX, United States.
Introduction: During inflammation, transporter proteins (P-gp & BCRP)
expression decreases in the maternal decidua, increasing the vulnerability
of the feto-maternal interface (FMi) to the accumulation of inflammatory
and toxic substances. We hypothesize that extracellular vesicles (EVs)
from fetal chorion trophoblast cells (CTCs) deliver transporter proteins
(P-gp & BCRP) to maternal decidual cells (DECs) rending them efflux
active to maintain homeostatic balance at the FMi through a process
called exofection, where CTC-derived EVs transfer transporter proteins
to induce functional changes in DEC cells.
Methods: EVs isolated from CTCs culture media by tangential flow
filtration were characterized for quantity and size (ZetaView), tetraspanin
markers (ExoView). EV transporter protein concentration was determined
by ELISA and western blot. The efficiency of exofection where CTCEVs
induce P-gp & BCRP expression in DECs was evaluated using flow
cytometry and Immunofluorescence. In vitro, efflux function was assessed
with a multi-drug resistance assay.
Results: Transporter proteins P-gp and BCRP were prominently expressed
in CTC-EVs. These EVs, measuring 125 ± 20 nm in size, exhibited
tetraspanin markers (CD9, CD63, CD81) and HSP70. Proteomic and
RNA-seq analyses revealed a high abundance of transporter proteins,
tetraspanins, and various genes involved in cellular pathways.
Fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry confirmed that DEC
cells exposed to CTC-EVs underwent exofection, acquiring P-gp and
BCRP expression (p < 0.05). Furthermore, multidrug resistance assays
demonstrated a significant enhancement in efflux activity (p < 0.05) in
the exofected cells.
Conclusion: Our study demonstrated that fetal membrane-derived
EVs enhance efflux function in decidual cells through the exofection of
218A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
two functionally active transporter proteins, P-gp & BCRP. Exofection
should be considered a novel approach to cellular engineering, where a
lost or diminished function of a specific protein can be restored through
EV-delivered proteins.
S-013
Effect Of Buprenorphine on Human Fetal Membrane Markers
of Membrane Weakening. Megan E Kelleher†,1 Tatyana Lynn,1
Elle M McCauley,1 Ryan W Logan,2 Kimberly A Yonkers,2 Vikki M
Abrahams∗.1 1Yale University, New Haven, CT, United States; 2University
of Massachusetts, Worcester, MA, United States.
Introduction: Fetal membrane (FM) inflammation and weakening is
a major cause of preterm birth. Opioid-use disorder (OUD) is a critical
problem in the US and is also a major contributor to preterm birth. While
maintenance therapy with the opioid, buprenorphine, helps with OUD,
it still significantly increases the risk for preterm birth. We previously
reported that buprenorphine induces FM inflammation through activation
Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and inflammatory signaling pathways. The
objective of this study was to determine the effect of buprenorphine on
markers of FM weakening and the mechanisms involved.
Methods: Human FMs were collected from women with normal term
pregnancies (38-41 weeks) that were delivered by caesarean-section
without known inflammation, infection, or medication use. FMs were
biopsied and explants were treated with or without buprenorphine in
the presence or absence of inhibitors to either TLR4 (LPS-RS), opioid
receptors (Naloxone), p65 NFκB (BAY11-7082), p38 MAPK (SB203580),
ERK (SCH77298) or JNK (SP600125). After 48hr, FM supernatants were
collected and measured by ELISA for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and the
matrix metalloproteinases, MMP-1, MMP-2 and MMP-9.
Results: Treatment with buprenorphine increased FM secretion of PGE2
(67.6±35.0 fold), MMP-1 (2.8±1.1 fold), and MMP-9 (1.6±0.2 fold)
(p<0.05), but had no effect on MMP-2 levels. TLR4 inhibition had no
effect on the ability of buprenorphine to increase FM secretion of PGE2,
MMP-1, or MMP-9. The opioid receptor inhibitor, naloxone, reduced
buprenorphine-induced FM PGE2 secretion by 34.1±15.9% (p<0.05),
but had no effect on MMP-1 or MMP-9 secretion. Inhibition of p65
NFκB had no effect on buprenorphine-induced FM PGE2 or MMP-9,
but reduced MMP-1 secretion by 45.0±21.7%. Inhibition of p38 MAPK
had no effect on buprenorphine-induced FM PGE2 or MMP-9, but
reduced MMP-1 secretion by 41.6±7.7% (p<0.05). Inhibition of ERK
reduced buprenorphine-induced FM secretion of PGE2 by 91.8±6.3%
(p<0.05), MMP-1 by 88.3±6.5% (p<0.05), and MMP-9 by 39.6±14.4%.
Inhibition of JNK reduced buprenorphine-induced FM secretion of PGE2
by 73.8±143.3% and MMP-9 by 42.3±11.4% (p<0.05) but had no effect
on MMP-1 levels.
Conclusion: The opioid, buprenorphine, elevates human FM production
of mediators of membrane weakening independently of TLR4, but in
part through activation of the μ-opioid receptor and the p65 NFκB, p38
MAPK, ERK and JNK signaling pathways. This provides new insight
into mechanistic link between opioid use in pregnancy and the elevated
risk for preterm birth.
S-014
CircRNA-miRNA-mRNA Regulatory Network in Uterine Smooth
Muscle during Labor. Yuou Chen†, Yihong Luo, Xiuyu Pan, Zheng
Zheng, Pin Li, Yunshan Chen, Lele Wang, Huishu Liu, Kaiyuan Ji.
Guangzhou Women and Children’s Medical Center Affiliated to Guangzhou
Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
Introduction: Circular RNAs (circRNA) is a kind of ceRNA, acting
as microRNA (miRNA) sponges and affecting various physiological
processes. However, the differentially expressed circRNAs and their
potential biological roles of the regulatory network is unclear in the
transition from the myometrial quiescence to contraction during labor.
We have comprehensively mapped the landscape of protein-coding
RNA, miRNA, long non-coding RNA, and proteins in the myometrium
previously, with the notable exception of circRNAs. Therefore, it is highly
necessary to utilize high-throughput sequencing techniques to detect
circRNAs in the myometrial tissues of women who are pre-labor and in
labor and conduct a circRNA-miRNA-mRNA ceRNA regulatory network
and advance our understanding of the molecular mechanism of parturition.
Methods: Twenty pregnant women who underwent cesarean sections
were enrolled in this study—comprising 10 cases of In-labor and 10 Nonlabor
participants at term. CircRNAs were extracted from myometrial
tissue and subjected to RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). The results were
subsequently validated using real-time quantitative reverse transcription
PCR (RT-qPCR). The differentially expressed circRNAs, miRNAs and
mrnas were identified and their interaction networks were constructed.
Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of
Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses were performed to explore
the biological functions associated with host genes of these circRNAs.
Results: A total of 86,305 circRNAs were identified in the myometrium of
term pregnant women during labor and those not in labor. Notably, 1,073
circRNAs exhibited differential expression between the myometrium of
women in labor and those not in labor (fold change > 2 and P < 0.05), with
353 being upregulated and 720 downregulated. Differentially expressed
circRNAs were characterized further to construct a circRNA-miRNAmRNA
regulatory network comprising 8 circRNAs, 9 miRNAs, and 14
mRNAs. The targeted mRNAs were found to be associated with the PI3KAkt
signaling pathway, Hippo signaling pathway, and cytokine-cytokine
receptor interactions. Additionally, RT-qPCR analysis revealed that
has-circRNA-0001523, has-circRNA-0100427, has-circRNA-0139737,
has-circRNA-0133728, and has-circRNA-0120233 were significantly
downregulated in the In-labor group compared to the Non-labor group.
Importantly, all five of these circRNAs demonstrated high diagnostic
value.
Conclusion: The identified circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory network
unveils the potential mechanism of parturition. This study offers novel
perspectives on the circRNA-associated ceRNA network in regulating
parturition and identifies potential diagnostic biomarkers in patients
with parturition.
S-015
Enhancing Uterine EMG Signal Quality in Pregnancy Through Slow-
Wave Signal Modulation. Zichao Wen, Hansong Gao†, Yong Wang∗.
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Uterine contractions are essential indicators of labor
progression and maternal-fetal health. Accurate contraction monitoring
is crucial for effective labor management. Although electromyography
(EMG) has demonstrated advantages over TOCO monitors, traditional
EMG signals, commonly used to assess uterine activity, often suffer from
poor signal quality, hindering contraction detection and other clinical
applications. This research proposes a novel method that utilizes lowfrequency
electrical signals to enhance conventional contraction EMG
signal quality, addressing these limitations and improving the accuracy
of uterine contraction detection.
Methods: We analyzed surface EMG data from 12 pregnant subjects
in active labor, each using up to 192 electrodes as part of the
Electromyometrial Imaging (EMMI) study. A two-step signal
enhancement method was developed to combine low-frequency signals
and conventional uterine EMG signals. First, a Butterworth bandpass filter
of 0.01-0.1 Hz and 0.34-1 Hz was applied to extract the low-frequency
waves s(t) and conventional EMG signal f(t), respectively. Next, the
modulation signal was defined by multiplying the conventional EMG
signals (carrier signals) by the envelope of the low-frequency wave
(modulating signals), i.e., envelope(s(t))⋅f(t). The envelope was computed
using the root mean square with a 10-second window.
Results: The proposed method significantly improved EMG signal quality,
producing contraction patterns with high signal-to-noise ratios. This
method generates uterine contraction signals with fewer artifacts in rest
states and better contrast between contraction and rest states. Quantitative
analysis revealed a twofold improvement in contraction signal quality
metrics, with increased detection accuracy validated against clinical
observations based on TOCO and expert assessments. The synthesized
signals allowed more reliable identification of contraction periods based
on EMG measurement and promoted high-quality EMMI imaging.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 219A
Saturday Posters
Conclusion: This study demonstrates the effectiveness of combining lowfrequency
and conventional EMG wave synthesis to enhance the reliable
detection of uterine contraction signals. The success of this proposed
method suggests the intrinsic biological connection between the slow
frequency signals and conventional EMG signals. The improved accuracy
in uterine contraction detection is essential for a deeper understanding
of uterine contraction dynamics, optimizing labor management, and
maternal-fetal health.
S-016
Synchronized Uterine Electromyographic (EMG) Activity Portends
Cervical Change in a Non-Human Primate (NHP) Model of Preterm
Labor (PTL). P Zhao,1 D Short,2 L Miller,3 S Mesiano,4 M Johnson,2 R
Young,5 S Kallapur,6 P Presicce∗.6 1WashU, St Louis, MO, United States;
2Imperial College, London, United Kingdom; 3UC Davis, Davis, CA, United
States; 4CWRU, Cleveland, OH, United States; 5PreTeL, Inc, Chattanooga,
TN, United States; 6UCLA, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
Introduction: We explored the relationships between inflammation,
cervical changes, and EMG activity in a model of PTL induced by intraamniotic
(IA) injection of E.coli in the NHP. For clinical relevance,
antibiotics (Abx) were started 24h after E.coli. Anti-inflammatory therapy
using Anakinra (IL1 inhibitor) was given in a subset of animals along
with Abx
Methods: R. macaques at 85% gestation were used: Grp I) IA E. coli +
Abx n=3; Grp II) IA E. coli + Abx + Anakinra n=2. Daily amniocentesis
for IL6 levels tracked longitudinal amniotic inflammation. EMG sensors
were placed surgically and tethered to the fascia of abdominal muscles
over the 4 quadrants of the gravid uterus. 4 channel EMG signals were
wirelessly transmitted to a nearby receiver via telemetry. Recordings
(14 hours/day) were obtained starting 24h before E.coli and continued
daily until study end. Study endpoint was PTL (defined as vaginal
delivery or progressive cervical dilation and softening via ultrasound)
OR surgical delivery 6-7d after E.coli if no PTL. Uterine EMG activity
was processed in each of 4 channels using a band-pass filter, detrending,
and auto-adaptive thresholding to detect EMG spikes. A contraction
burst was defined as a time interval (30s to 2m) of EMG spike showing a
high-frequency phase compared to the surrounding low-frequency phases.
Cosinor fitting evaluated the diurnal variation pattern of contraction
activity. Synchronized EMG signals were those occurring in 3 or 4
channels, while unsynchronized EMG activity were those that occurred
in only 1 or 2 channels.
Results: 1) PTL occurred in 2/3 dams in Group I and 1/2 in Group II, 2)
Unsynchronized EMG activity was detected in the 3rdtrimester without
diurnal variation prior to IA E.coli 3) IA E.coli induced synchronized
EMG activity in the 3 subjects with PTL 4) Synchronized EMG activity
was largely expressed in a circadian rhythm with preferential nocturnal
activity and was necessary but not sufficient for PTL 5) IA E.coli increased
AF IL6 levels (~50-fold) at 24 hours followed by a subsequent decline
6) There was no consistent temporal correlation between AF IL6 and
synchronized EMG 7) IL1 inhibition did not have a consistent correlation
with EMG activity
Conclusion: Intraamniotic inflammation and synchronized EMG
contractions appear necessary but not sufficient to initiate PTL. In
addition to inflammation and synchronized EMG activity, other factors
that influence the cervix such as prostaglandins, may be required for
PTB. Minimally invasive multichannel EMG with telemetry in the NHP,
combined with longitudinal assessments of inflammation, and monitoring
cervical changes, is a revealing model for elucidating the complex
mechanisms of PTB
S-017
The Role of HSPA5 in Myometrial Dynamics during Labor. Yuou
Chen†, Kaiyuan Ji, Fan Yang, Xiaodi Wang, Huishu Liu, Junjie Bao∗.
Guangzhou Women and Children’s Medical Center, Guangzhou Medical
University, Guangzhou, China.
Introduction: Heat shock protein family A member 5 (HSPA5), also
known as glucose-regulated protein (GRP78) and immunoglobulin
heavy chain-binding protein (BiP), serves as an endoplasmic reticulum
(ER) chaperone and is a key regulator of ER homeostasis. Our previous
observed increase in HSPA5 levels in human laboring myometrium
suggests its significant role during labor.
Methods: Myometrial samples from the lower uterine segment were
collected with approval from the Ethics Committee of Guangzhou
Women and Children Medical Center and written consent from all
subjects. Real-time PCR was employed to validate the differential
expression of the HSPA5 gene in human myometrium during non-labor
and labor phases, as indicated by our previous transcriptomic analysis.
Additionally, immunofluorescence and western blotting were utilized to
assess the variations in HSPA5 protein expression between non-labor and
laboring myometrium. RNA-seq analysis was performed on myometrial
smooth muscle cells before and after the knockdown of HSPA5 using
small interfering RNA (siRNA) to identify HSPA5-associated genes and
pathways. Statistical analyses were performed using Student’s t-test for
two groups with GraphPad Prism 8.4.0 software.
Results: HSPA5 expression was significantly up-regulated in the human
laboring myometrium at both mRNA and protein levels compared to the
non-labor state (p < 0.05). Following HSPA5 knockdown, there was an upregulation
of genes associated with inflammatory responses (interleukin-
1β, C-C motif chemokine ligand 2, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, etc.),
alongside a down-regulation of genes related to cell adhesion, extracellular
matrix organization, and collagen fibril organization (collagen type I alpha
1 chain, periostin, thrombospondin 1, etc.).
Conclusion: The up-regulation of HSPA5 in the human laboring
myometrium may regulate cell adhesion, extracellular matrix organization,
and collagen fibril organization, and play a crucial role in mitigating
excessive damage to the myometrium caused by inflammatory responses
during labor.
S-018
A Spatiotemporal Molecular Atlas of the Mouse Cervix during
Pregnancy and Labor. Yusuke Ueda†, Xin Zhang∗, Haiqi Zhang∗, Mala
Mahendroo∗. UTSouthwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, United States.
Introduction: The cervix plays a critical role in maintaining pregnancy
and ensuring successful delivery. During pregnancy, goblet cell
proliferation in the cervical epithelium helps protect against ascending
infections, while the cervical stroma softens and ripens in preparation for
labor. However, the underlying cell lineages and molecular interactions
among the epithelium, stroma, and immune cells that regulate these
processes are not yet fully understood. In this study, we used Curio Seeker
spatial transcriptomics to map gene expression across cervical cell types
in mouse pregnancy and labor.
Methods: We conducted spatial transcriptomics on cervical tissue from
non-pregnant mice as well as mice at gestational days 12, 15, 18, and
in labor. Fresh-frozen cervical sections were mounted on 3 × 3 mm
Curio Seeker tiles spatially arrayed with 10-μm beads carrying unique
spatial barcodes. The tissues analyzed included the cervical canal and
the surrounding ectocervix. Five major cell types—stromal, epithelial,
immune, endothelial, and red blood cells—were assigned to each spatial
transcriptome dataset by referencing our previously published single-cell
RNA sequencing data from mouse cervices.
Results: We found that 88.5±3.0% of beads could be matched with a
single cell type, while 9.7±3.9% matched two cell types. The cell type
distribution in the spatial transcriptome analysis was as follows: stromal
cells (65.0±9.5%), epithelial cells (32.0±8.3%), immune cells (2.5±2.4%),
endothelial cells (0.5±0.3%), and red blood cells (0.0±0.0%). This
mapping recapitulated the overall structure of the cervix and spatially
located each cell type in relation to a corresponding H&E image. We
also found that mucin 5B (Muc5B), a marker for goblet cells, was
highly expressed in the apical layer of the cervical epithelium, with the
highest number of Muc5B-positive cells observed on gestational day 15.
Transformation related protein 63 (Trp63), a marker for basal cells, was
enriched in the basal epithelial layer, with Trp63-positive cell numbers
remaining constant throughout pregnancy. In the cervical stroma, smooth
muscle actin (Acta2, a smooth muscle marker) and decorin (Dcn, a
fibroblast marker) showed distinct, non-overlapping enrichment patterns.
220A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Conclusion: We have generated an atlas of spatial gene expression in
the mouse cervix during pregnancy. This atlas closely mirrors previous
bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing data of the pregnant mouse cervix.
This atlas offers the potential for new insights into the lineage trajectory
of goblet cell differentiation and cervical softening and ripening during
pregnancy. Ongoing studies will further explore these mechanisms.
S-019
Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) Channel Mediates
Oxytocin-Induced Uterine Contractility. Daiana Fornes†, Jessica Ansari,
Guillermina Michel, Cristina Alvira, David Cornfield. Stanford University,
Palo Alto, CA, United States.
Introduction: Lack of insight into the subcellular mechanism of oxytocininduced
uterine contractility has constrained the development of novel
uterotonic medications. In murine models, the TRPV4 channel is a
determinant of the contractile state of the gravid uterus. We hypothesized
that, in the gravid human uterus, activation of TRPV4 mediates oxytocininduced
contraction of uterine smooth muscle cells (uSMCs).
Methods: After obtaining informed consent, uterine biopsies were
collected from the midline of the hysterotomy of non-laboring patients
undergoing term cesarean delivery (n=17). Immunofluorescence and
Proximity Ligation Assay (PLA) were performed to investigate the
physical interaction between TRPV4 and oxytocin receptor (OXTR).
In low-passaged uSMCs, we analyzed the effects of TRPV4 antagonist
GSK2798745 (1 nM) and siRNA-mediated TRPV4 knockdown on
oxytocin-induced calcium influx and contractility. Calcium dynamics
were measured using Fura-2 AM, and contractility via collagen gel assays.
Gel assay results are reported as % gel surface area compared to no cells,
smaller numbers represent more contraction. Bulk RNA sequencing
compared OXTR and TRPV4 transcript levels between oxytocin-resistant
uterine atony patients and controls.
Results: In myometrial tissue, TRPV4 and OXTR colocalized at a distance
of < 40 microns by PLA. In uSMCs, TRPV4 antagonist GSK2798745
reduced oxytocin-induced calcium influx by 91% (p<0.001) and
contractility by 98% (67.01 ± 3.17% vs. 33.83 ± 0.72% for oxytocin;
p<0.001). TRPV4 knockdown reduced calcium by 91% (p<0.0001)
and contractility by 55% (51.80 ± 3.18% vs. 33.33 ± 0.88% for nontargeting
siRNA; p<0.01). Direct TRPV4 agonism with GSK1016790A
induced robust calcium influx and contractility which was unaffected by
OXTR blockade using atosiban. Co-stimulation with oxytocin enhanced
contraction (26.60 ± 0.86%, p<0.01), suggesting a synergistic effect. When
we compared uterine tissue from patients with uterine atony to controls,
there was an 82% reduction in colocalization of TRPV4 and OXTR in
(p<0.05). There was no difference in TRPV4 or OXTR transcription by
bulkseq to explain this reduced colocalization.
Conclusion: These data demonstrate that in gravid human uSMCs,
oxytocin-induced increases in intracellular calcium concentration and
contractility are mediated by TRPV4 activation. The decreased interaction
between TRPV4 and OXTR in uterine atony compared to controls with
normal uterine contractility points to a potential mechanism underlying
oxytocin resistance. Targeting the TRPV4 channel directly may represent
a novel treatment paradigm for uterine atony.
S-020
Natasure: A Non-Invasive Cervical Cerclage Feasibility Study in
a Sheep Model. Courtney D Townsel,1 Gardner Yost,2 Jeffery Plott∗,2
Brooke Pallas.2 1University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, United States;
2University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States.
Introduction: In the U.S., about 10% of neonates are born preterm,
with cervical insufficiency responsible for 1-2% of all births annually
(40,000-80,000). Current treatments, including invasive cerclage and
less effective methods like pessaries and progesterone, highlight the need
for better solutions. The Natasure cerclage is a non-invasive, single-use
handheld device that deploys a cervical cerclage transvaginally without
anesthesia in an outpatient setting. Our primary objective was to evaluate
its retention and safety.
Methods: This prospective case-control pilot study was conducted
from March to August 2023 with non-pregnant female sheep. After
acclimatization, two control sheep (C1 and C5) received a McDonald
cervical cerclage using 0-prolene, while four case sheep (N2, N3, N4, N6)
underwent the Natasure cerclage, both under general anesthesia. Followup
examinations were conducted 3-15 days post-procedure to assess
cervix, cerclage retention, and complications. After 8-9 weeks, the sheep
were euthanized for collection of cervical, uterine, ovarian, and bladder
tissues for pathological analysis. Tissues were processed and evaluated
microscopically by a veterinary pathologist. Summary statistics for sheep
anatomy, procedure duration, and descriptive outcomes were compiled.
The study received approval from the Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committee (#PRO00011160).
Results: The average vaginal length of the sheep was 7 ± 1.7 inches, the
average cervical width was 1.8 ± 0.3 inches, and the Natasure procedure
lasted on average 8.6 ± 3.8 minutes. Pathological findings were confined
to the cerclage site, revealing mild to moderate inflammation around the
suture in both groups. The Natasure group showed local ulceration and
necrosis. Severe ulceration and tissue necrosis occurred in animal N2,
which prompted structural and tensioning adjustments to the Natasure
device. Animals N3 and N4 exhibited smaller ulcers and erosion without
necrosis, demonstrating mild mixed inflammatory infiltrates. Animal N6
showed a focal microabscess and localized granulomatous inflammation,
indicating a tissue reaction to the sutures. In the control group (McDonald
cerclage), inflammation in the cervical musculature was mild to moderate
(C1 and C5). C5 was associated with moderate endometrial edema near
the internal os, otherwise no abnormalities were observed in the vagina,
bladder, or reproductive organs in any animal.
Conclusion: The sheep genital tract dimensions were similar to those
of humans, and the Natasure cerclage remained in place for 8 weeks
without migration. Histopathological results were comparable between
the Natasure and McDonald cerclages, with no structural damage to
surrounding tissues. These findings provide preliminary support for the
safety and feasibility of the Natasure cerclage.
S-021
Phosphorylated HSPB1 Levels and Subcellular Locations Are Altered
in Human Myometrial Cells under Tension Stress. Shayla D Jesse†,
Daniel J MacPhee∗. University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada.
Introduction: The myometrium undergoes cellular adaptation during
pregnancy to enable the future production of labour contractions and
delivery of a baby. Fetal growth induced uterine stretch increases detection
of small Heat Shock Protein Beta 1 (HSPB1) in myometrium during
pregnancy. However, the precise responses of phosphoserine-15-HSPB1
(pS15-HSPB1), pS78-HSPB1, and pS82-HSPB1 to applied tension as well
as their specific subcellular locations in human myometrial cells following
this stress are unknown. We hypothesized that increasing applied tension
to myometrial cells will increase the detection of phosphorylated forms
of HSPB1 and that subcellular location of these proteins will be altered
with tension stress over time.
Methods: The hTERT-HM immortalized human myometrial cell line
was seeded on collagen-I coated flexible bottom 6-well plates and
cultured in DMEM/F12 media containing 10% FBS and antibiotics. A
Flexcell FX-6000T system was used to induce unrestrained tensions (0,
10, 15, 20, 25% elongation) on myometrial cells, followed by lysis in
extraction buffer, SDS-PAGE, and detection of phosphorylated forms
of HSPB1 by immunoblot analyses. Data from densitometric analyses
of immunoblots were assessed by one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey
post-hoc tests with a P < 0.05 considered statistically significant. For time
course experiments (0, 0.5, 3h) at 25% elongation, cells were immediately
fixed after elongation in 4% paraformaldehyde/phosphate buffered saline
(PBS), permeabilized with PBS containing 0.1% Triton X-100, then
immunostained for specific forms of phosphorylated HSPB1 and VASP.
Actin stress fibres were stained with Phalloidin-AF647. Images were
collected with an Olympus IX83 inverted microscope equipped with an
Andor Zyla sCMOS camera.
Results: In experiments with different tensions, immunoblot analyses
demonstrated that pS15-HSPB1 was significantly elevated at 25%
elongation relative to 20%, 15%, 10%, and 0% (P<0.0001); at 20%
relative to 10% and 0% (P=0.0162, P=0.0026, respectively); and at
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 221A
Saturday Posters
15% relative to 0% (P=0.0409). Similarly, pS78-HSPB1 detection
was significantly elevated at 25% relative to 20%, 15%, 10%, and 0%
(P<0.0001) and elevated at 20% and 15% relative to 0% (P=0.0037,
P=0.0198, respectively). In contrast, pS82-HSPB1 detection was
only significantly elevated at 25% elongation relative to 10% and 0%
(P=0.0111, P=0.0046, respectively). Over a time course of 25% cell
elongation, immunofluorescence detection of pS78-HSPB1 was markedly
diminished after 0.5h within focal adhesion-associated actin stress fibre
termini compared to pS15-HSPB1, while pS82-HSPB1 remained in
perinuclear locations during tension.
Conclusion: Our results indicate that pS15-HSPB1, pS78-HSPB1, and
pS82-HSPB1 may have distinctive roles within myometrial cells exposed
to tension stress.
S-022
Validation of CYC1, YWHAZ, and ATP5B as Reference Genes in
Pregnant Human Myometrium. Marina Paul, Anna Paredes Barreda,
Amy Gregson, Madeline King, Md Reduanul Hossain, Roger Smith, Tamas
Zakar, Jonathan W Paul∗. University of Newcastle, Callaghan, Australia.
Introduction: Quantitative PCR (qPCR) is a powerful technique
for determining gene expression changes associated with changes in
cellular activity/function, such as the onset of labor. However, accurate
quantification of qPCR data requires a set of stable reference genes for
normalization across samples. Arrowsmith et al. recently investigated
the suitability of several potential reference genes in pregnant human
myometrium and found that “despite being some of the most used
reference genes, B2M, 18s, and ACTB expression was least stable and
was too variable for use as accurate normalization factors”. Moreover,
GAPDH, the most frequently utilized myometrial reference gene, was
also not a stable reference gene. Instead, the genes, CYC1, YWHAZ, and
ATP5B, were found to be the “most stably expressed reference genes”. As
such, we aimed to examine the expressions of CYC1, YWHAZ, and ATP5B
in our preterm and term non-laboring and laboring human myometrium,
as well as in our “ex vivo labor” model.
Methods: Biopsies of preterm and term, pregnant not-in-labor and in-labor
human myometrium were collected, snap-frozen, and stored at -80ºC.
For our “ex vivo labor” model experiments, biopsies of term not-in-labor
human myometrium were collected then a small portion snap-frozen
immediately (0 h). The remaining tissue was dissected into small pieces
(explants) and incubated for 48 h. Following incubation, the explants were
snap-frozen and mRNA extracted. The expression of the putative reference
genes, CYC1, YWHAZ, and ATP5B, was determined by qRT-PCR relative
to spiked-in Alien RNA transcript, an in vitro-transcribed commercially
available RNA molecule with no significant homology to any known
nucleic acids. Data were analyzed by ANOVA using GraphPad Prism.
Results: CYC1, YWHAZ, and ATP5B were all stable across term not-inlabor
and in-labor human myometrium. CYC1 was stable across preterm
not-in-labor and in-labor human myometrium. ATP5B was stable across
preterm not-in-labor and term not-in-labor human myometrium. YWHAZ
and ATP5B were stable across singleton and twin human myometrium.
Neither CYC1, YWHAZ, or ATP5B were stable between 0 h vs 48 h
explants in our “ex vivo labor” model.
Conclusion: This study demonstrates that it is imperative to confirm the
stability of a chosen reference gene within the specific experimental setting
being analyzed. Reference genes that are stable within one experimental
setting are not necessarily stable within another experimental setting, even
when the same tissue (myometrium) is being analyzed in both settings.
S-023
Investigating the Impact of Enzymatic Cross-Linking on
Microstructure and Mechanical Properties of Fibrillar Collagen.
Nicholas T Gigliotti†, Vivian H Su†, Mitra L Taheri∗. Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: During pregnancy, the extracellular matrix (ECM) of the
cervix undergoes significant remodeling. This complex evolution includes
a significant increase in collagen turnover, leading to a shift from trivalent
to divalent cross-links. While it is widely hypothesized that the shift in
cross-linking plays an important role in the mechanical evolution of the
cervix during cervical ripening, the nature and extent of this contribution
to cervical tissue mechanics has yet to be fully understood. In this work
we investigate lysl oxidase (LOX), the enzyme that mediates collagen
cross-linking in the ECM, and its impact on the structure and mechanical
properties of collagen.
Methods: Type 1 fibrillar collagen hydrogels were prepared at a
concentration of 2.5 mg/mL in complete media containing DMEM, 10%
FBS, and 5uM/mL of L-ascorbic acid. Hydrogels were incubated at 37C
and 5% CO2 in a 0.1U/mL solution of LOX in complete media for 1, 4, 8,
16, and 24 hours. Collagen hydrogels without LOX treatment were used
as a control group. A ninhydride assay was performed to measure free
amine concentration with 0.25 - 2.5 mg/mL non-cross-linked collagen
used as standards. Immunofluorescent staining of collagen and confocal
fluorescent microscopy was used to visualize network structure of the
collagen hydrogels, while SHG and TEM were used to characterize
collagen fiber and fibril structure. Rheology was performed on samples
to assess the mechanical response as a function of enzymatic cross-link
concentration. All experiments were performed in triplicate and statistical
analysis was performed with ANOVA.
Results: As incubation time increased, free amide concentration decreased,
indicating an increase in the degree of crosslinking. TEM and SHG of
collagen fibrils demonstrated that increased cross-link concentration
resulted in the formation of smaller collagen fibrils, indicating smaller
intermolecular spacing within fibrils due to the increased number of
intermolecular bonds. Rheology of the samples indicated that increased
cross-linking resulted in an increase in storage modulus.
Conclusion: By isolating and examining the effect of enzymatic crosslinking
on collagen structure in a hydrogel system, we were able to
identify and model the relationships between the degree of cross-linking,
the hierarchical structure of the collagen, and its mechanical properties.
By applying these relationships to the observed structural changes in the
cervix during pregnancy, we can estimate the contribution of collagen
cross-linking to the mechanical evolution of the cervix during pregnancy.
S-024
Investigation of Collagen Network in the Presence of Dinoprostone
(PGE2) and Indomethacin. Vivian H Su†, Nicholas T Gigliotti†, Mitra
L Taheri∗. Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: A short cervix is a clinical indicator of spontaneous
preterm birth (PTB), which can be modeled in vivo using dinoprostone
(PGE2). The weakening of the cervix’s mechanical properties is often
associated with a reduction in mature collagen crosslinks. Indomethacin,
a PGE2 inhibitor, has been shown to delay PTB. We hypothesize that
PGE2 downregulates collagen crosslinking by inhibiting lysyl oxidase
(LOX), however, the specific mechanism by which the treatments affect
collagen crosslinking remains unclear and can be investigated using
hydrogel systems.
Methods: Acellular Type I collagen hydrogels were prepared at a
concentration of 2 mg/mL and incubated with biologically relevant
concentrations of PGE2 (1, 25, 100 ng/mL), indomethacin (0.5, 5, 50 ug/
mL), and a combination of both. Collagen hydrogels without treatment
was used as a control group. Rheological characterization was performed
to determine any differences in viscoelastic responses.
Results: There is no significant difference between the viscoelastic
properties of the treated and untreated collagen hydrogels.
Conclusion: Cellular response to the drug treatments drives the collagen
remodeling response as there are no changes in the mechanical behavior
of the collagen hydrogel network in the absence of cells. Future studies
will include seeding fibroblasts in the hydrogels and conducting tensile
testing, histology, and transmission electron microscopy to evaluate the
changes of the stiffness, orientation, and fibril diameters of the collagen
networks. mRNA and protein levels of LOX and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-
2) will be measured with standard RT-PCR and Western blotting protocols.
222A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
S-025
A Single Amino Acid Mutation, D100K, Increases Cell Surface
Expression of the Oxytocin Receptor and Enhances Recovery from
Desensitization. Tsuyoshi Murata†, Erin L. Reinl∗, Trinidi D. Prochaska†,
Antonina I. Frolova∗, Sarah K. England∗. Washington University School
of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Approximately half of pregnant women who give birth
in the U.S. receive oxytocin administration to induce or augment labor.
However, prolonged oxytocin exposure leads to oxytocin receptor (OXTR)
internalization and decreased uterine contractility. We hypothesized that
resistance to or recovery from desensitization could be enhanced by
increasing the rate of anterograde trafficking of the receptor. To study this,
we used an OXTR mutation, D100K, which was predicted to increase
surface expression under basal conditions.
Methods: Wild type (WT) human OXTR (hOXTR) and hOXTR with
the D100K mutation were tagged with N-terminal hemagglutinin and
C-terminal GFP tags, and transiently transfected into HEK293T cells.
Confocal microscopy and quantitative flow cytometry were used to
assess cell surface expression of hOXTR. hOXTR surface expression
was analyzed using quantitative flow cytometry after 20 minutes
of desensitization with oxytocin concentrations of 10-11 to 10-7 M.
Additionally, hOXTR surface expression was analyzed using quantitative
flow cytometry following increasing periods of recovery (0, 0.5, 1, 2, and
4 hours) from 20-minutes desensitization with 100 nM oxytocin. Inositol
1-phosphate assay was used to compare WT and D100K baseline OXTR
signaling, and their response to 2 hours of desensitization with oxytocin
concentrations of 10-11 to 10-4 M.
Results: D100K had a 2.3-fold higher cell surface abundance compared
to WT (p<0.01), increased colocalization with plasma membrane
marker, CellBrite® Steady (Pearson’s r of 0.55 vs. 0.37, p<0.05), and
an approximately 5-fold decrease in EC50 of IP1 accumulation. After 20
minutes of 100 nM oxytocin exposure, most D100K cells desensitized
to a similar degree as WT, but a portion of the cell population retained
surface expression at pre-desensitization levels. In these cells, the D100K
surface expression was nearly 1.5-fold higher than WT after every
oxytocin dose (p<0.05). Additionally, cells with D100K demonstrated a
rate of recovery from desensitization that was 1.5 times faster than WT
(p<0.001), even when cells were transfected with two- or three-times
higher DNA quantity (p<0.001).
Conclusion: The receptor abundance at cell surface was higher in
the D100K mutant compared to the WT receptor, which resulted in
sustained OXTR surface expression in a portion of HEK293T cells after
100nM oxytocin exposure. Additionally, the D100K mutant exhibited an
approximately 1.5-fold increased rate of recovery from desensitization
in HEK293T cells. These findings provide insights into structural
mechanisms that can increase surface expression of OXTR and into
conditions where oxytocin sensitivity is attenuated.
S-026
Advantages of a Vaginal N,N-Dimethylacetamide Self-Nanoemulsifying
Drug Delivery System (SNEDDS) for Preterm Birth. Sandra E. Reznik∗,1
Asad Mir,1 Teeshavi Acosta,1 Marta Concheiro,2 Ketan Patel,1 Steven
Yellon.3 1St. John’s University, Jamaica, NY, United States; 2John Jay
College of Criminal Justice, New York, NY, United States; 3Loma Linda
University, Loma Linda, CA, United States.
Introduction: Vaginal (vag) administration and the concomitant uterine
first pass effect allow for preferential delivery of drugs to the reproductive
tract, which permits smaller doses of drug candidates to be administered
when given vaginally as opposed to other routes of administration.
Dimethylacetamide (DMA) has previously been shown to delay preterm
birth (PTB) in a pregnant mouse model when given intraperitoneally
(ip) but the effectiveness of a vag nanoformulation of DMA has yet to be
tested. The aims of this study were to compare ip and vag DMA for (1)
efficacy in rescuing pups from PTB in an inflammation-induced mouse
model, (2) effects on the maternal fetal interface, and (3) pharmacokinetic
profiles in maternal plasma.
Methods: Timed pregnant LPS-induced CD1 mice at E15.5 were
administered 3 doses of either 0.94 g/kg of vag DMA, 1.56 g/kg of ip
DMA or vehicle (n = 6-10/group) and delivery times were recorded. For
testing the effects of the formulations on the maternal fetal interface, the
above procedure was repeated in the absence of LPS (n = 6-8/group).
Semi-quantitative histology was done with ImageJ/Fiji version 2.14.0
(National Institutes of Health). Another 30 timed pregnant mice in late
gestation were given a single dose of either vag or ip 1.56 g/kg DMA or
PBS for control and blood was drawn at 3 different time-points following
the DMA administration (n=4-5/time point/group). Plasma levels of DMA
were measured using high performance liquid chromatography coupled to
triple-quadrupole mass spectrometry against standard curves.
Results: Vag DMA at the lower dose (0.94 mg/kg) had similar efficacy
in delaying PTB as ip DMA at the higher dose (1.56 g/kg) with 22/80
(27.5%) of pups born preterm in vag DMA treated dams as compared to
27/57 (47.4%) of pups born preterm in blank vag controls (P<0.00) and
0/113 (0%) of pups born preterm in ip DMA treated dams as compared to
32/90 (35.6%) born preterm in ip PBS controls (P<.0001). Mice treated
with ip DMA, but not vag DMA, showed significant histomorphologic
changes affecting the placenta (P<.0001) and yolk sac. Finally, the average
DMA concentrations at 120 minutes were reduced by more than 50% in
the systemic circulation when with vag SNEDDS DMA as opposed to ip
DMA (4.95 mmol/L vs. 11.15 mmol/L; P<.001).
Conclusion: Vaginal administration of DMA has similar efficacy in
delaying inflammation induced preterm birth as ip administration, but
results in lower concentrations in the systemic circulation and decreased
effects on the maternal fetal interface. Vaginal nanoformulations should be
explored for their potential therapeutic value for the delay of preterm birth.
S-027
15dPGJ2 Inhibits FKBP51-PR Interaction and Labor-Inducing
Mediators: Implication for Therapeutic Use to Prevent Preterm Birth.
Asli Ozmen∗,1 Busra Cetinkaya-Un,1 Jacqueline Blas,1 Annie Thurman,2
Mark Walters,2 Isabella Johnson,2 Umit A Kayisli,1 David Friend,2 Charles
J Lockwood,1 Ozlem Guzeloglu-Kayisli.1 1University of South Florida,
Morsani College of Medicine, Tampa, FL, United States; 2Dare Bioscience
Inc., San Diego, CA, United States.
Introduction: Preterm birth (PTB) is the leading cause of perinatal
morbidity and mortality with 40% of cases classified as idiopathic
(iPTB). Maternal stress, anxiety, and depression are linked to iPTB.
However, the underlying mechanism of this link is unclear. Sustained
serum progesterone (P4) levels during human labor suggests reduced
progesterone receptor (PR) levels and/or activity as a cause. FKBP51, a
stress-induced co-chaperone, inhibits the transcriptional activity of PR
and glucocorticoid receptor. We recently showed: 1) higher FKBP51
levels and increased FKBP51-PR interactions in decidual cells from iPTB
cases vs. gestational age-matched controls, and 2) resistance to maternal
stress-induced PTB in Fkbp5-/- mice. In silico drug screening identified
15-deoxy-delta-12-14-prostaglandin-J2 (15dPGJ2), a prostaglandin D2
derivative, as a potential inhibitor of glucocorticoid-induced FKBP51
levels in human term decidual cells (TDCs). Thus, we hypothesized that
FKBP51 inhibition by 15dPGJ2 would enhance PR activity, to block
induction of labor-inducing genes to potentially prevent iPTB.
Methods: TDCs (n=5) were treated with either 5x10-8 M estradiol
(E), ±10-7 M P4, ±10-7 M R5020 and ±10-5 M 15dPGJ2 for 6h or 24h.
At the end of 6h, FKBP5, and key labor mediators OXTR, IL1B and
PTGS2 levels were evaluated by qPCR. P4 and its major P4 metabolite,
20α-hydroxyprogesterone (20α-OHP4) levels were measured by Massspec,
while PGF2α levels were measured by ELISA in culture media
supernatant (CMS) from 24h cultures. PR-FKBP51 interaction was
evaluated in cytosolic and nuclear extracts by immunoprecipitation (IP)
using goat anti-FKBP51 and rabbit anti-PR antibody. One-Way ANOVA
was used for Statistical comparison with P<0.05 considered significant.
Results: 15dPGJ2 treatment of TDC cultures reduced: 1) FKBP5 levels
by ~30% (P<0.05); 2) IL1B and OXTR levels by ~30% (P<0.05); and 3)
PTGS2 levels by ~40% (P<0.001) and PGF2α levels by ~60% (P<0.05)
compared to controls. However, 15dPGJ2 did not alter either P4 or
20α-OHP4 levels in CMS. IP results showed both cytosolic and nuclear
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 223A
Saturday Posters
FKBP51-PR interactions were reduced by either E+P4 or E+R5020
treatment and 15dPGJ2 plus P4 or R5020 further decreased PR-FKBP51
interactions (P<0.05).
Conclusion: Our results indicate that 15dPGJ2 significantly reduces
FKBP51 levels and PR-FKBP51 interaction, thereby enhancing PR
transcriptional activity. Additionally, 15dPGJ2 inhibits key mediators of
labor initiation and exhibits strong anti-inflammatory effects. Together,
these results support the therapeutic use of 15dPGJ2 ± progestins as a
novel agent in preventing PTB. This study was supported by NIH/NICHD
R41HD113465.
S-028
Preterm Birth Trend in Singapore. Tiong Ghee Teoh∗, Phoy Cheng
Chun†, Ilka Tan∗. SingHealth @ KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital,
Singapore, Singapore.
Introduction: This is the first study on the PTB rate in Singapore.
Singapore has a multi-ethnic, low birth rate with a stable population and
the PTB rate of 8.2% has not improved in the past decade.
Methods: Reliable electronic data was used to do a 7 year retrospective
review from 2017 - 2023 of 91,350 babies delivered at SingHealth
Healthcare Cluster. Categorical variables were compared using Pearson’s
chi-square test. We used a Conchran-Armitage trend test to examine
trends in incidence of PTB over the 7 year period. Multinomial logistic
regression model was used to examine the relationship between potential
risks factors and the type of PTB.
Results: These were presented in OR and 95%CI. In Singapore, the
incidence of PTB was 8.8% in 2017 and 8.2% in 2023. In our Institution,
although there was a downward trend of 11% in 2017 to 9.9% in 2023,
this was not a significant decrease in the PTB rate. 60% of PTBs were
spontaneous with the rest being physician indicated or iatrogenic. This
ratio has not differed significantly over the study period.
80% of the extreme and very early PTBs of Singapore are cared for by our
Institution, and this rate has remained unchanged, representing consistent
and effective service provision for this cohort of women and their babies.
It also gives us an opportunity to study them closer. Except for a trough
during covid, the multiple births accounted for 10.1% of PTB. 3.71%
were iatrogenic and 6.38% spontaneous.Applying multinomial logistic
regression analysis, we found that the Chinese race, even with a low
deprivation index higher than other races in Singapore, had the highest
risk. Single and divorced status, BMI greater than 23 and maternal age
older than 35 were all associated with PTB. Contrary to current published
evidence, blood Group AB was also associated with a higher incidence
of PTB.
Conclusion: This is the first study to review the incidence, trend and
associated risk factors of PTB in Singapore, which is a multi-ethnic and
well developed country. This study has revealed interesting factors which
need to be addressed and managed to reduce PTB.
S-030
Contraceptive Discontinuation and Microbiome Characteristics
Among Pregnancy Planners. Julia C Bond†,1 Rodney Bruno†,1 Andrea
Kuriyama,2 Eliza Pentz,2 Chad Coleman†,2 Doyle Ward,3 Lauren Wise,2
Bernard Harlow,2 Wendy Kuohung∗.1 1Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA,
United States; 2Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, MA,
United States; 3University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
MA, United States.
Introduction: A growing body of research suggests that hormonal
contraceptive use influences the vaginal microbiome, with use of oral
contraceptives (OCs) in particular promoting a stable microbiome. Yet
little research has evaluated the influence of contraceptive discontinuation
on microbiome characteristics.
Methods: We used data from Pregnancy Study Online (PRESTO), a
prospective preconception cohort study. Eligible participants had a uterus,
were attempting pregnancy for ≤4 cycles at enrollment, aged 21-45 years,
living in the United States, and not using fertility treatment. Participants
self-reported extensive information about contraceptive history at
enrollment and provided a vaginal swab at a clinic visit within two weeks
after enrollment. Samples were collected outside of the menstrual phase.
DNA from vaginal swabs was analyzed using 16S rDNA sequencing.
Higher microbiome diversity (associated with dysbiosis and adverse
outcomes) was operationalized using two separate binary variables: 1)
an indicator that a given participant was higher than the sample mean
of the Shannon Index and 2) an indicator that a participant had ≥2
dominant operation taxonomical units (OTUs) defined as groups of related
organisms comprising ≥10% of the microbiome. We used log-binomial
regression to calculate crude prevalence ratios (PRs) and 95% confidence
intervals (95% Cis) for contraceptive discontinuation variables in relation
to each microbiome outcome.
Results: Our sample included 72 participants. As time since discontinuation
of any hormonal contraception increased, so did markers of microbiome
diversity. Those who discontinued any hormonal contraception >2
months ago were more likely to have a Shannon Index above the sample
median (PR 1.58, 95% CI 0.86, 2.91) and also more likely to have ≥2
dominant OTUs (PR 1.19, 95% CI 0.71, 1.99), compared with those who
discontinued ≤2 months ago. Evaluating OC discontinuation alone, those
who discontinued OCs >2 months ago had 1.57 times the prevalence of
having a Shannon Index above the sample median (95% CI 0.97, 2.55)
compared with those who discontinued ≤2 months ago. PRs were similar
for ≥2 OTUs (1.56, 95% CI 1.02, 2.39).
Conclusion: This preliminary analysis found evidence that discontinuing
hormonal contraception was associated with increased diversity in
the vaginal microbiome, which may lead to dysbiosis and adverse
outcomes. Because vaginal dysbiosis has been associated with adverse
reproductive outcomes and pregnancy planning necessitates contraceptive
discontinuation, more research is necessary to understand and prevent
changes in microbiome composition following discontinuation of
hormonal contraceptives.
S-033
A Systematic Review of the Impact of the CDC’s Social Determinants
of Health on Period Poverty. Ashley Rempert,1 Vaughn Hernandez,1
Anson Dao,2 Julia T Berry,3 Mackenzie Simon-Collins,1 Elisabeth M
Nylander,1 Elizabeth Varghese,4 Abigail Coco,1 James Segars,1 Bhuchitra
Singh†.1 1Johns Hopkins School Of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United
States; 2Augusta University, Augusta, GA, United States; 3Beaumont Health
Graduate Medical Education, Royal Oak, MI, United States; 4Stony Brook
Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
Introduction: Despite period poverty’s high prevalence, period poverty
has lacked a comprehensive review within the scope of the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) Social Determinants of Health.
Hence the objective of this systematic review was to evaluate the impact
of CDC’s Social Determinants of Health on period poverty.
Methods: A systematic search was conducted across five databases:
CINAHL, Cochrane Library, Embase, PubMed, and Scopus. The review
followed Cochrane Handbook and PRISMA guidelines. Four reviewers
independently screened titles and abstracts, followed by full-text
assessments based on predefined criteria. Eligible studies quantitatively
measured quality of life (QoL) in menstruating individuals and at least
one of the CDC’s Social Determinants of Health. Risk of bias was
assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. Pre- and post-intervention
data examining the impact of the Social Determinants of Health on period
poverty were analyzed. The review was registered with PROSPERO
(CRD4202340514) on 15 March 2023.
Results: From 3,706 articles, 36 studies met inclusion criteria. Most
studies focused on healthcare access and quality (n=26), education access
and quality (n=28), and social and community context (n=13). Economic
stability (n=2) and neighborhood and built environment (n=8) were less
represented. Healthcare access and quality showed that a lack of access to
menstrual absorbents was associated with poor health outcomes, increased
health issues, and impaired QoL. Studies on education access found
insufficient menstrual education, leading to negative attitudes toward
menstruation, improper practices, and higher rates of school absenteeism.
The social and community context revealed frequent social stigmatization,
where menstruators faced taboos, restricting their participation in daily
activities and impacting their QoL. Economic stability was challenged
by the high cost or unavailability of menstrual products, exacerbating
224A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
period poverty. Lastly, the neighborhood and built environment domain
highlighted a lack of clean facilities and proper disposal for menstrual
waste, worsening the experience of menstruators. The review identified
multiple overlapping Social Determinants of Health that compounded the
burdens of period poverty.
Conclusion: The Social Determinants of Health significantly influence
period poverty and the quality of life for menstruating individuals. There
was variability regarding which determinants had the greatest impact,
indicating a need for more targeted and individualized access programs
to improve menstrual health.
S-034
Induction of Cellular Senescence Accelerates Lesional Fibrogenesis
in Mice with Induced Endometriosis. Xishi Liu∗, Fan Jiao, Sun-Wei
Guo∗. Shanghai OB/GYN Hospital, Shanghai, China.
Introduction: Endometriosis has been traditionally viewed as an
enigmatic disease with mysterious pathogenesis and pathophysiology.
Consequently, the management of endometriosis leaves much room to be
desired. We have previously reported the downregulation and promoter
hypermethylation of Klotho, an aging-suppressor gene, in adenomyotic
lesions, a form of ectopic endometrium. Our unpublished data also
indicate that markers of cellular senescence, such as p16 and p21, are
also overexpressed in ectopic endometrium, suggestive of senescence.
Cellular senescence is associated with a senescent associated secretory
phenotype (SASP). Uncannily, many cytokines and growth factors known
to be involved in endometriosis belong to the SASP. We hypothesized that
cellular senescence accelerates lesional progression through suppression
of Klotho.
Methods: We induced endometriosis in 16 Balb/C female mice by
intraperitoneal injection of uterine fragments harvested from another 8
donor mice. Two weeks after the induction of endometriosis, the mice
were randomly divided into D-GAL and CTLR groups in equal sizes.
Mice in the G-GAL and CTRL groups were given the senescenceinducing
drug D-galactose (150 mg/kg/d) and the equal volume of
sterile saline, respectively, via subcutaneous injection for 2 weeks,
and were then sacrificed. All lesions were harvested and processed for
immunohistochemistry analysis of E-cadherin, vimentin, p16, p21,
LaminB1, Klotho and β-catenin as well as Masson trichrome staining.
Additionally, hotplate test was administrated right before the induction,
and 2 and 4 weeks after the induction.
Results: Compared with CTRL mice, the D-GAL mice had significantly
increased lesion weight, shortened hotplate latency, and elevated
lesional fibrosis by the end of the experiment, suggestive of accelerated
lesional progression. Consistently, epithelial staining of E-cadherin was
significantly reduced while that of vimentin was significantly elevated,
suggestive of enhanced epithelial-mesenchymal transition. In addition, the
staining levels of senescence markers p16 and p21 were both significantly
elevated in lesions from D-GAL mice, while that of Klotho and LaminB1
was significantly reduced, suggestive of increased cellular senescence
in endometriotic lesions. Moreover, lesional β-catenin staining was
significantly higher in D-GAL mice than CTLR mice.
Conclusion: Our data indicate that the induction of cellular senescence
accelerated lesional progression and fibrogenesis, likely through the
downregulation of Klotho and the activation of the β-catenin signaling
pathway. This, in conjunction with our finding that anti-senescence
intervention decelerated lesional progression and fibrogenesis, and the
role of Klotho in mediating SASP secretion, indicates the role of cellular
senescence in the progression of endometriosis, and raises the possibility
of using senolytics as a therapeutics for endometriosis.
S-035
Endometriosis Impairs Decidualization by Dysregulation of Fibroblast
and Immune Cells. Rong Li, Soo Lim Kim, Tae Hoon Kim, Jae-Wook
Jeong. University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis affects 10% of reproductive age women with
50% of those women are infertile. Endometriosis-related infertility can
be attributed to ovarian, endocrine and endometrial defects. Our previous
study has revealed that endometriosis results in defective decidualization
using a preclinical mouse model. However, it is not fully understood how
ectopic lesions of endometriosis induces cellular changes in the eutopic
endometrium leading to endometriosis-related infertility.
Methods: Female mice were surgically induced endometriosis by
intraperitoneal (IP) injections of uterine fragments. Three months after
endometriosis induction, the mice were ovariectomized, rested for two
weeks, then treated with exogenous estrogen and progesterone, eventually,
one uterine horn will be scratched to stimulate artificial decidualization
(AD). On the fifth day of AD, one third of the decidual uterine horn
from sham (Sham, n=2) and endometriosis mice (Eut, n=2), the ectopic
lesions (Ect, n=1, pooled ectopic lesions from five endometriosis mice)
were collected for scRNA-Seq analysis. The rest of tissues were used for
immunohistochemistry (IHC, n=3 per group).
Results: Our scRNA-Seq analysis identified that fibroblast (Fibr) was
decreased and the immune cells were increased in the Eut and Ect
compared to the sham. The decidual fibroblast (Dec) is the dominant
fibroblast clusters in Sham but dramatically reduced in Eut and absent in
Ect. On contrary, the undecidual Hsd11b2 Fibr was the largest fibroblast
cluster in Eut with a different development trajectory from the decidual
fibroblasts, and not present in the pregnant mouse uterus. Lymphocyte
T, B cells, and neutrophil are increased in both Eut and Ect compared
to Sham with a greater extent in Ect. Although macrophage (MФ) was
reduced in Eut and Ect, the Gdf15 MФ and Fcna MФ were mainly found in
Eut and Ect, respectively, which expressed higher levels of inflammatory
cytokines. Natural killer cells (NK) were more abundant in Sham, in
which uterine decidual NK, Gzmd NK was the dominant cluster. Eut and
Ect contained more Klrk1 NK which also secreted more inflammatory
cytokines. More interestingly, the fibroblasts and immune cells displayed
strong communications through CXCL12, complement, prostaglandin,
and TNFSF12 signaling in Eut and Ect to establish the pro-inflammatory
environment in endometriosis. IHC further confirmed the subset of undecidual
fibroblast with high levels of HSD11B2 but low levels of BMP2
in the eutopic endometrium of endometriosis mice.
Conclusion: Our endometriosis mouse model revealed critical
fibroblast and immune cellular changes and interactions during uterine
decidualization, which may impair the uterine receptivity leading to
endometriosis associated infertility.
S-036
Does the Ovary Continue to Be the Most Common Site of
Endometriosis in the Modern Laparoscopy Era? A Retrospective Chart
Review of Diagnostic/Therapeutic Laparoscopies in Patients Diagnosed
with Infertility. Sophie Kim†, Diego Ramirez, Teodoro Montoya, Zuber
Mulla, Pallavi Dubey, Ana Dornbusch, Luis Noble. Texas Tech Health
Science Center El Paso, El Paso, TX, United States.
Introduction: The most common location of endometriotic implants in
the pelvis has historically been documented as the ovary. High-definition
video laparoscopy systems, uterine manipulators, among other tools,
have since changed the process of diagnosing endometriosis. This study
aimed to evaluate the most common site of endometriosis in patients
with infertility.
Methods: A retrospective review of medical records including subjects
from January 2013 to June 2022 was performed at Southwest Center for
Reproductive Health. All patients presented with clinical diagnosis of
infertility and elected to proceed with a diagnostic laparoscopy. Adjusted
prevalence ratios (PR) for the binary outcome of moderate or severe
endometriosis (vs. minimal or mild) were calculated from a log-binomial
regression model.
Results: 276 patient charts were eligible for analysis. 223 (80.8%)
subjects were Hispanic. Average age (SD) was 33 years (4.4), average
BMI (SD) was 27.4 (4.7), 111 subjects (40.2%) were obese, and average
length of infertility was 2.3 (1.4). Most patients had mild-moderate stage
endometriosis: 11 (4%) had stage I, 182 (65.9%) had stage II, 54 (19.6%)
had stage III, and 29 (10.5%) had stage IV. The most common sites of
endometriosis were the ovarian fossa (87.7%), uterosacral ligament (57%),
the ovary (48%). Obesity was not associated with the presence of moderate
or severe endometriosis (adjusted PR=0.89, 95% confidence interval
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 225A
Saturday Posters
[CI]: 0.61-1.29, p=0.53). Site of endometriosis (ovarian involvement
vs. no ovarian involvement) was positively associated with moderate or
severe endometriosis: adjusted PR=4.35, 95% CI: 2.66-7.12, p<0.0001).
Conclusion: The most common site of endometriosis in this group of
predominantly Hispanic patients diagnosed with infertility was not the
ovary, but the ovarian fossa. Women with ovarian involvement were
significantly more likely to have moderate or severe endometriosis.
S-037
Differential Cellular and Molecular Features Between Uterine
Leiomyoma and Leiomyosarcoma at Single-Nuclei Resolution. Sandra
Boldu-Fernandez†,1,2 Paula Punzon-Jimenez†,1,2 Sheila Zuñiga∗,2 Esther
Lara-Cuesta†,1 Victor Lago∗,3 Carlos Simon∗,1,2 Aymara Mas∗.1,2 1Carlos
Simon Foundation, Paterna, Spain; 2INCLIVA Health Research Institute,
Valencia, Spain; 3La Fe University and Polytechnic Hospital, Valencia,
Spain.
Introduction: Uterine leiomyosarcomas (LMS) are highly aggressive
tumors that may arise from preexisting leiomyomas (LM) with distinct
genetic and/or cellular traits. The exact identity of the cells that give rise
to LMS within LM remains unclear. In this work, we aimed to identify
differential molecular and cellular features of LMS and LM, at singlenuclei
resolution, that may drive their transformation into a malignant
state.
Methods: Single nuclei RNA-seq was conducted on ~43,300 nuclei from
4 LM and 7 LMS tumors. Following 10X Genomics protocol, nuclei
were isolated by droplet microfluidics and labelled for high-throughput
sequencing with Illumina technologies. Data were processed with
CellRanger v8 and Seurat v5 for filtering, normalization and annotation.
Cell clusters were manually annotated using public datasets. And
downstream analyses for differential cell abundance (DA), differential
gene expression (DGE) and enrichment analyses (EA) between LM and
LMS were conducted with R-based tools.
Results: We characterized the distinct cellular and molecular profiles of
LM and LMS encompassing endothelial, lymphatic endothelial, immune,
perivascular, fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells (SMC). Notably,
we identified an intermediate cluster of mitotically active (MA) cells,
primarily composed of SMC and fibroblasts, with high expression of
G2S/M phase genes. Since mitotic activity is a significant indicator of
tumor growth and is often linked to more aggressive biological behaviour,
we focused on this specific cell cluster. DA analysis revealed an increase
of MA cells in LMS compared to LM. Concurrently, DGE showed an
overexpression of extracellular matrix (ECM)-associated genes (NID1,
RCN3, COL16A1) in LMS, while LM exhibited upregulation of HMGA2,
along with other genes associated with the cell cycle (KLHL13, ZBTB16)
and cellular proliferation (RERG, SFRP4). Interestingly, the enrichment
analysis, based on hallmarks and gene ontology, highlighted significant
differences in the epithelial-mesenchymal (EMT) transition, along with a
disruption in angiogenesis and ECM deposition, emphasizing the distinct
cellular and molecular features of LM and LMS.
Conclusion: Our results underscore the distinct biological pathways
in LM and LMS particularly regarding EMT, angiogenesis and ECM
deposition in MA cells. These insights emphasize the potential for
developing therapeutic approaches and improved strategies for clinical
management. Funding: CP19/00162 (Miguel Servet Spanish Program),
PI23/00536 (ISCIII/FEDER) (AM), PRDVA234168BOLD (AECC) (SB).
S-038
Mutant MED12-Mediated CDK8 Kinase Inhibition Stimulates the
Pro-Fibrotic Role Of the STAT3 Pathway: A Novel Therapeutic Target
In Human Uterine Leiomyoma. Azna Zuberi†,1 Thomas G. Boyer∗,2
Yang Dai∗,3 Mazhar Adli∗,1 Serdar E Bulun∗,1 Ping Yin∗.1 1Northwestern
University, Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States;
2University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States;
3University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Uterine leiomyomas (LM or fibroids) occur in ~70% of
women. MED12 mutations (mut-MED12), detected in ~77% of LM,
disrupt CDK8 kinase activity. STAT3 is a central regulator of fibrosis
and tumor growth. We hypothesized that mut-MED12-induced CDK8
inhibition alters the STAT3 phosphorylation (pSTAT3) pattern to favor
a hyperactive form, leading to the transcriptional activation of genes
crucial for LM growth.
Methods: LM and matched myometrial (MyoF) tissue, primary LM
and MyoF cells, and a CRISPR-engineered LM-relevant mut-MED12
human uterine smooth muscle (hUtSM) cell line were used in the study.
All experiments were repeated using tissue or cells from at least 3 patient
samples.
Results: RNA-seq analysis of LM and MyoF tissue revealed significant
enrichment of inflammatory pathways in MyoF adjacent to mut-MED12
LM, and identified STAT3-activating cytokines (OSM, LIF, IL1β, IL6,
CSF3) as upregulated in MyoF. These cytokine markedly increased
mut-MED12 LM cell viability, with OSM showing the strongest effect
(p<0.01). Notably, OSM induced less pSTAT3 at serine 727 (pS727) but
more at tyrosine 705 (pY705), and higher cell survival in mut- vs wt-
MED12 LM cells (p<0.01). The mut-MED12 hUtSM cells also showed
lower pS727- but higher pY705-STAT3 levels. The in vitro kinase assay
found that wt- but not mut-MED12-associated CDK8 stimulated pSTAT3
at S727. RNA-seq revealed that CDK8 inhibitor (SEL120) treatment of
wt-MED12 LM cells stimulated the expression of pro-fibrotic genes,
which are specifically upregulated in mut-MED12 LM vs MyoF tissue, and
these effects were abolished by co-treatment with STAT3 inhibitor (S3I-
201) (p<0.05). The specific requirement of STAT3 in dysregulating the
expression of genes mediated by mut-MED12-induced CDK8 inhibition
was demonstrated by enhanced STAT3 binding in target gene loci in
mut-MED12 LM, and the suppression of their expression specifically by
inhibition of STAT3 but not other STAT family members. Functionally,
STAT3 inhibition decreased cell survival, with greater effects in mut- vs
wt-MED12 LM and MyoF primary and hUtSM cells (p<0.01). The
expression of genes regulating apoptosis and collagen synthesis, which
are dysregulated in mut-MED12 LM, were reversed by STAT3 inhibitor
in mut-MED12 LM cells (p<0.05). Finally, progesterone receptor, the
essential factor of LM growth, binds at the STAT3 gene locus and
stimulates its expression in LM cells (p<0.05).
Conclusion: These findings identify STAT3 as a novel signaling hub
where mut-MED12-induced Mediator kinase disruption and steroid
hormone action converge, establishing STAT3 as a novel therapeutic
target in LM, particularly in the dominant mut-MED12 LM subtype.
S-039
Dysregulated Collagen Type XII Alpha 1 Chain Expression Promotes
the Growth of Uterine Leiomyomas. Yuqian Tian†,1 Raya Siddique†,1
Begum Aydogan Mathyk,1 Xiaofang Guo,1 Kosha Upadhyaya,1 Alexandra
Saffa,1 Rodrigo Rosado,1 Brittney Short,2 Thomas Rutherford,2 Matthew
Anderson∗.1 1College of Medicine, Tampa, FL, United States; 2Tampa
General Hospital Cancer Institute, Tampa, FL, United States.
Introduction: Uterine leiomyomas are benign tumors founds in as many
as 77% of reproductive-aged women. Despite the fact that leiomyomas
are a frequent cause of pelvic pain, vaginal bleeding and infertility,
medical options for managing these common tumors remain limited.
High expression of the collagen type XII alpha 1 chai (COL12A1) gene
correlates with increased frequency of metastases in colorectal and gastric
cancers. However, the role of COL12A1 in uterine leiomyomas has not
been previously evaluated.
Methods: COL12A1 gene expression patterns were evaluated using a
previously validated data set (Delaney, et al., 2017). In addition, patterns of
COL12A1 expression in tissues and primary cultured cells were validated
using semi-quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) and Western blot.
Transcript-specific siRNAs were used to target COL12A1 expression
in vitro. CellTiter 96® AQueous One Solution Cell Proliferation Assay
(Promega) was used to evaluate proliferation; flow cytometry was used
to evaluate cell cycle distribution. Western blot was used for detecting
the P-Akt and CylinD1 signaling pathway. Statistical significance was
assessed using paired Student’s t-tests assuming normal distribution of
data.
Results: COL12A1 was robustly overexpressed in specimens of
leiomyomas collected during the proliferative (2.5- fold, n=9, p=0.00026)
and secretory (2-fold, n=10, p=0.012) menstrual phase. Using a separate
226A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
set of specimens, COL12A1 was also overexpressed in proliferative
(n=6, p=0.033) and secretory (n=6, p=0.015) leiomyomas, but not in
postmenopausal tissues (n=6, p=0.18). COL12A1 also significantly
increased in leiomyoma primary cultured cells compared to matched
myometrium primary cells (n=9, p=0.04). Knockdown of COL12A1 in
primary cultures derived from leiomyomas slowed proliferation at 48 and
72 hours (n=3), increased the proportion of myocytes in G1 (p=0.004) and
decreased in proportion of S (p=0.006) and G2 (p=0.03) when compared
to cultures transfected with a non-targeting scrambled control (n=4).
COL12A1 knockdown was accompanied by decreased expression of
phospho-Akt and CyclinD1.
Conclusion: Robust COL12A1 overexpression is a feature of uterine
leiomyomas, where it promotes growth. Additional work is needed
to better understand how COL12a1 contributes to leiomyoma growth
mechanistically.
S-040
Predicted Placental Gene Expression Links Endometriosis, Uterine
Fibroids, and Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome. Alexis Akerele†,1,2,3 Jeewoo
Kim†,2,3 Elizabeth A Jasper,2 Jacklyn N Hellwege,3,2 Todd L Edwards,2
Digna R Velez Edwards∗.2 1Meharry Medical College, Nashville, TN,
United States; 2Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, United
States; 3Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, United States.
Introduction: Mother-to-child disease transmission begins in utero,
with the placenta playing a critical role in pregnancy and offspring
health. Evidence links adult disease with placental gene expression.
Here we explore whether placental gene expression may also influence
the development of endometriosis polycystic ovarian syndrome, and
uterine leiomyoma (fibroids), three common gynecologic diseases.
These conditions feature several common debilitating symptoms (like
severe abdominopelvic pain, abnormal bleeding, and infertility) and have
few fertility-preserving treatments. Endometriosis, polycystic ovarian
syndrome, and uterine fibroids also often co-occur, and are linked to
increased chronic disease risk, yet the underlying mechanisms remain
poorly understood. In this study we evaluated the relationship between
endometriosis, uterine fibroids, and polycystic ovarian syndrome and
placental genetically-predicted gene expression (GPGE).
Methods: Multi-ancestry summary statistics were meta-analyzed from
published studies for endometriosis (24,818 cases and 501,407 controls),
uterine fibroids (44,205 cases and 356,552 controls), and polycystic
ovarian syndrome (10,074 cases and 103,164 controls). We evaluated
association with GPGE using S-PrediXcan across 49 tissues (GTEx v7
and published placental expression quantitative trait loci). The significant
gene list for placenta was filtered against the 48 other tissue types to
identify placenta-specific gene associations.
Results: Fifteen genes associated with uterine fibroids and polycystic
ovarian syndrome were significantly predicted to be uniquely expressed
in the placenta. Notably, glycoprotein gene CD109, associated with
uterine fibroids, was reported in the GWAS catalogue and literature to be
linked to endometriosis, increased diastolic blood pressure, and reduced
calcium levels (a factor associated with uterine fibroids, polycystic ovarian
syndrome, and endometriosis). Two genes, ATF4P4 and NIN, were only
associated with polycystic ovarian syndrome in GPGE from placenta.
ATF4P4 influences sex hormone-binding globulin levels, previously
implicated in uterine fibroids, polycystic ovarian syndrome, and severe
endometriosis, while NIN regulates angiogenic processes, which is
essential for uterine fibroids and endometriosis tissue growth and survival.
Conclusion: These findings suggest a complex genetic network linking
the placenta and the development gynecologic diseases. Our results
further support a developmental origin of these gynecologic conditions,
with placental gene expression potentially serving as a mechanistic link
between in utero exposures and health later in life.
S-041
The Pathological Reprogramming of Pseudouridine Epitranscriptome
in Human Uterine Fibroids. Qiwei Yang, Ayman Al-Hendy. University
of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: The epitranscriptome is an emerging frontier in molecular
medicine owing to its vast potential as an additional layer of gene
regulation beyond the epigenome. The emerging evidence demonstrates
that RNA modifications are central to regulating cell functions. The
isomerization of uridine (U) nucleosides to Pseudouridine (Ψ) is the
most abundant modification in RNA and is catalyzed by multiple Ψ
synthase enzymes. Recent studies demonstrated that Ψ is involved in
many biological events, including pre-mRNA splicing, RNA stability,
and translation control. These are critical in epigenetic regulation of gene
expression in physiology and disease. However, RNA pseudouridylation
in the pathogenesis of uterine fibroids (UFs) is unknown. Therefore, this
study investigates the role and regulatory mechanism of Ψ reprogramming
in UFs.
Methods: We performed immunoblot analysis using a patient-matched
tissue sample set (PMTSS), each set comprising one myometrium (MM)
and at least two different UF tumors from the same patient uterus (MM:
N=7, UFs: N=23). We employed a genetic knockdown approach to
determine the functional role of a Ψ regulator in UF cells. Cell viability
was examined using a trypan blue exclusion assay in UF cells. Quantitative
real-time PCR was performed to compare the RNA expression levels. A
comparison of 2 groups was carried out using a student t-test for parametric
distribution and the Mann-Whitney test for nonparametric distribution.
The significant difference was defined as p<0.05.
Results: Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that among six major
components of Ψ modification machinery examined in PMTSS, four
components, including PUS7, PUS1, DKC1, and TRUB1, exhibited a
significant upregulation in UFs compared to MM (P<0.05). Since PUS7
showed a tumorigenic role in several types of cancer, we selected PUS7
as a target for further analysis. The cellular-based study demonstrated
that UF cells showed higher expression of PUS7, which is consistent with
findings from our clinical sample set. We then established a UF cell line
with a depletion of PUS7 using a shRNA lentivirus system. The loss-offunction
study demonstrated that the depletion of PUS7 concomitantly
suppressed UF cell proliferation with a decrease in the expression of
PCNA, the cell proliferation marker. Notably, the knockdown (KD)
of PUS7 also reduced the expression of fibronectin, one of the critical
extracellular matrix proteins. These studies suggest the crucial role of
PUS7 in UF pathogenesis.
Conclusion: This study reveals for the first time that the protein levels
of multiple Ψ regulators are aberrantly upregulated in UFs, and genetic
KD of PUS7 suppresses UF phenotype via pseudouridylation mechanism,
providing a more holistic view of the epitranscriptomic landscape in
UFs. Our novel findings uncover new mechanisms, potentially leading
to innovative strategies to prevent and treat UFs by targeting the
Ψ-reprogrammed pathways.
S-042
One and Done: Who Receives Hysterectomy as an Initial Treatment
to Address Abnormal Uterine Bleeding? Whitney Robinson∗, Michael
J Green, Lauren G Anderson, Joacy G Mathias. Duke University School
of Medicine, Durham, NC, United States.
Introduction: Treatment guidelines for pre-menopausal abnormal uterine
bleeding (AUB) recommend medical management before hysterectomy.
Recent evidence indicates up to 40% of US AUB patients receive
hysterectomy without prior treatment, which may reflect disparities in
barriers and access to treatment. We hypothesize lack of pre-hysterectomy
treatment for premenopausal AUB is associated with patient age,
diagnoses, urbanicity, and insurance.
Methods: Data were from the Virginia All-Payor Claims Database (VAAPCD),
a state-wide database of private, Medicaid, and Medicare claims.
We examined claims for 1,875,468 women aged 18-55 years with active
insurance enrolment in 2018-2019. From these, we identified a sample
of 818 patients undergoing hysterectomy with an AUB diagnostic code,
18 months continuous insurance enrollment before hysterectomy, and
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 227A
Saturday Posters
no codes for ovarian, uterine or cervical cancer. In the 18 months prehysterectomy,
billing codes identified medical management (hormonal
contraceptives, tranexamic acids, GnRH injections, and intrauterine
devices), uterine-sparing procedures (myomectomies, uterine artery
embolization, endometrial ablations, and hysteroscopies), and diagnoses
for fibroids, endometriosis, gynecological pain or anemia. Treatment
differences were assessed with chi-square tests.
Results: 75% of hysterectomy patients had evidence of medical
management and/or uterine-sparing procedures in the 18 months preceding
their hysterectomy. Patients aged 50-54 years were less likely (p<0.06)
to have had prior treatments (66%) than those aged 18-39 (78%), 40-44
(76%) or 45-49 (71%). Those with endometriosis were more likely to have
prior treatments noted (78% with vs. 72% without; p<0.05) but there were
no differences for fibroids, gynecological pain, or anemia. Prior treatment
was marginally less likely for patients living in rural (72%) than urban
(76%) areas (p=0.26). Rates of prior treatment were lower (p<0.05) for
patients who were privately insured (73%) or on Medicare (71%) than
those on Medicaid (77%) or with private and public insurance (83%).
Conclusion: AUB patients treated with hysterectomy were less likely to
have had prior treatment if they were older, did not have endometriosis,
had private or Medicare insurance, and possibly, if they lived in rural
areas. Differences may reflect variations in patient preference and access,
or clinical norms.
S-043
Menstrual Cycle Characteristics and Microbiome Composition Among
Pregnancy Planners. Julia C Bond†,1 Chad Coleman†,2 Andrea Kuriyama,2
Eliza Pentz,2 Rodney Bruno†,1 Doyle Ward,3 Lauren A Wise,2 Bernard
L Harlow,2 Wendy Kuohung∗.1 1Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA,
United States; 2Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, MA,
United States; 3University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
MA, United States.
Introduction: Research suggests that the composition of the vaginal
microbiome changes across menstrual cycle phases. Comparatively
little research has evaluated the association between menstrual cycle
characteristics and composition of the vaginal microbiome.
Methods: We used baseline data from Pregnancy Study Online
(PRESTO), a prospective preconception cohort study. Eligible participants
had a uterus, were attempting pregnancy for ≤4 cycles at study entry,
aged 21-45 years, living in the United States, and not using fertility
treatment. Participants self-reported information about typical menstrual
cycle characteristics at enrollment, and provided a vaginal swab at a
clinic visit soon after enrollment. Samples were collected outside of the
menstrual phase. DNA from vaginal swabs was analyzed using 16S rDNA
sequencing. Higher microbiome diversity (associated with dysbiosis
and adverse outcomes) was operationalized using two separate binary
variables: 1) an indicator that a given participant was higher than the
sample median of the Shannon Index and 2) an indicator that a participant
had 2 or more dominant operational taxonomic units (OTUs), defined
as groups of related organisms comprising ≥10% of the microbiome.
We used log-binomial models to calculate unadjusted prevalence ratios
(PRs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) for contraceptive history
characteristics in relation to each microbiome outcome.
Results: In our sample of 72 participants, those who reported a typical
‘moderate/heavy or heavy’ menstrual flow were more likely to have
Shannon Index above the sample median than those who reported typical
‘light or moderate’ flow (PR=1.19, 95% CI 0.71, 1.99). Findings were
similar comparing the prevalence of ≥2 dominant OTUs (PR=1.15, 95%
CI 0.73, 1.80). Those with a usual menstrual cycle length <27 days were
slightly more likely to have a Shannon Index above the sample median
(PR=1.11, 95% CI 0.56, 2.20) but were less likely to have ≥2 OTUs
(PR=0.83, 95% CI 0.44, 1.58) compared with those with a usual menstrual
cycle of 27-29 days. Those who reported longer usual cycle lengths (≥30
days) were less likely to have a Shannon Index above the sample median
(PR=0.94, 0.51, 1.75) and ≥2 dominant OTUs (PR=0.79, 95% CI 0.47,
1.33) compared with those reporting a cycle length of 27-29 days.
Conclusion: These preliminary analyses suggest that some menstrual
cycle characteristics influence the composition of the vaginal microbiome
in a sample of pregnancy planners. Individuals with more frequent/heavier
menstruation had some evidence of a higher-diversity vaginal microbiome
and therefore may be at higher risk for vaginal dysbiosis and adverse
reproductive outcomes.
S-044
Uterine Delivery of Tranexamic Acid as a Potential Treatment for
Heavy Menstrual Bleeding. Rocío Martínez Aguilar†,1 Bethan Rowley†,1
Romy Ettlinger∗,2,3 Russell E Morris∗,3 Gael Morrow∗,4 Jacqueline A
Maybin∗.1 1University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom;
2Technical University of Munich, Garching, Germany; 3University of
St. Andrews, St. Andrews, United Kingdom; 4Robert Gordon University,
Aberdeen, United Kingdom.
Introduction: The antifibrinolytic medication tranexamic acid (TXA)
is one of the few non-hormonal medical treatments for heavy menstrual
bleeding (HMB). Although effective, achieving up to 50% reduction
in menstrual blood loss, intermittent oral administration of TXA is
contraindicated in those with previous venous thromboembolism or
those at high risk. We hypothesised that local delivery of TXA is feasible,
acceptable and effective.
Methods: For the preparation of medicated cotton-pellets, TXA (0.75
mg) was dissolved in deionized water, injected into a cotton-pellet and
dried at ambient conditions. Drug release kinetics were monitored via UV/
vis spectroscopy, mimicking physiological conditions with a phosphate
buffered saline solution (pH 4.0) at 37 °C. Wild-type mice (C57BL/6J)
underwent simulated menses after ovariectomy, sequential administration
of oestradiol, progesterone and decidualisation via transcervical oil
injection. At the time of progesterone withdrawal, mice were fitted with
cotton-pellets containing TXA (25mg/kg) or unmedicated cotton-pellets
(controls). Uterine tissue was collected 8h (t8, endometrial breakdown
n=7/8 TXA/controls) and 24h (t24, endometrial repair n=7/8) after
progesterone withdrawal. Endometrial breakdown/repair (histological
grading) and menstrual blood loss (MBL, alkaline-haematin method) were
quantified. Inflammatory mediators were also examined by RT-qPCR.
Results: We asked our public and patient involvement group about their
preferences for HMB treatment delivery and 71% stated that treatment
limited to menstruation was preferred, with 35% likely to use medicated
tampons if available. Spectroscopy monitoring revealed full and rapid
release of TXA within 45 minutes. Local uterine delivery of TXA showed
no significant differences in endometrial breakdown (t8) or repair grade (t24)
compared to the unmedicated group. However, a trend towards enhanced
repair was observed in the TXA group at t24, with 43.8% of mice reaching
full repair compared to the 3.6% achieved in the control group. The
amount of menstrual blood loss was significantly decreased (p=0.023) after
administration of TXA (1.08±0.56μl) compared to controls (2.70±1.38μl)
at t8. Inflammatory mediator mRNA showed no statistically significant
differences between the medicated tampons-treated mice compared to the
unmedicated group, with trends of decreased Ccl2 (chemokine ligand 2)
in the TXA group at t8 and increased Adm (adrenomedullin, endometrial
repair marker) at t24 compared to the unmedicated group.
Conclusion: Uterine drug delivery using medicated cotton-pellets is a
feasible strategy for local drug administration in our mouse model of
simulated menses.
S-045
Examining the Interaction Between Long COVID and Menstruation to
Improve Management. Marianne Watters†,1 Catherine Walker∗,1 Natalie
ZM Homer∗,1 Gabriella Kountourides†,2 Zuzanna Olszewska∗,2 Hilary O
Crtichley∗,1 Alexandra Alvergne∗,3 Jacqueline A Maybin∗.1 1The University
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; 2University of Oxford, Oxford,
United Kingdom; 3Universite de Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
Introduction: Long COVID is debilitating and defined as symptoms
lasting >8 weeks. We hypothesised that COVID-19 impacts menstrual
parameters and that the menstrual cycle exacerbates long COVID
symptoms due to altered ovarian sex hormone production and/or
inflammation.
Methods: With ethical approval and consent we conducted: (1) A
retrospective online UK survey in March 2021. Menstruators (n=12579)
228A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
were asked about menstrual parameters, socio-demographic, health
and COVID related variables. (2) A prospective online survey to track
long COVID symptom number/severity in 54 cycling women. (3) Ten
women with long COVID, regular menstrual cycles and no exogenous
hormones provided peripheral blood and endometrial samples across
the menstrual cycle. Controls were age-matched samples collected pre
2020. Samples were examined by LC-MS/MS, qRT-PCR, ELISA and
immunohistochemistry.
Results: Online survey participants had previous acute COVID (n=2017),
long COVID (n=1048) or no COVID (n=9423). The relative risk of more
frequent (<24 days) vs. normal cycles increased by 26% for those with
previous COVID (95CI = [1.07,1.49], p=0.006) and 27% in long COVID
(95CI = [1.01,1.59], p=0.04). Compared to control, prolonged menstrual
duration (>8 days) is increased 2-fold for the long COVID group (95CI =
[1.46; 3.51], p=0.001) and was not observed with previous COVID only.
Compared to control, previous COVID increased the risk of ‘‘heavier’’ vs.
‘‘normal’’ flow by 21% (95CI = [1.05 to 1.38], p=0.02) and long COVID
by 94% (95CI = [1.59 to 2.36], p<0.001). Associations did not depend
on reproductive disease or contraceptive use. Long COVID symptom
tracking revealed the number of symptoms did not significantly change
across the menstrual cycle. Reported severity of dizziness, fatigue,
post-exertion malaise and muscle aches were significantly increased
peri-menstrually, with minimum severity during the secretory phase.
Quantification of ovarian sex hormones in serum revealed higher secretory
5α-dihydroxytestosterone in those with long COVID versus controls
(p=0.014). There were no other differences in hormone levels in serum
or endometrial tissue. Serum cytokine profiles showed significantly more
menstrual inflammation and decreased proliferative inflammation in those
with long COVID versus controls (p<0.05).
Conclusion: Long COVID was associated with increased menstrual
frequency, duration and volume. Long COVID symptoms were more
severe at time of ovarian hormone withdrawal which was associated
with higher systemic markers of inflammation. Hormonal treatments and
cyclical anti-inflammatory medications warrant further investigation as
potential therapeutic strategies for long COVID symptoms in women.
S-046
Non-Invasive In Vivo Follicular Activation (IVFA) Using Ovarian
Puncture: Findings from a Preclinical Model of Premature Ovarian
Insufficiency (POI). Rosa Galán†,1 María José Soriano,1 Luis Miguel Del
Castillo,2 Patricia Fadon,3 César Díaz-García.4 1IVIRMA Global Research
Alliance, IVI Foundation, IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2Universidad de
Valencia, Valencia, Spain; 3IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVIRMA
London, London, United Kingdom; 4University of Glasgow, Glasgow,
United Kingdom.
Introduction: POI is characterized by the loss of the primordial follicular
pool before the age of 40. Therapeutic strategies using in vitro ovarian
fragmentation have shown potential in reactivating dormant follicles in
these patients; however, these methods are invasive and costly. To address
these challenges, we propose a new technique involving the disruption
of the ovarian extracellular matrix through punctures around the ovarian
cortex using a sharp needle. Previously, we demonstrated that the IVFA
therapy can promote follicle development and enhance oocyte yield in
a POI animal model. In this study, we aim to explore whether this new
therapy can also improve available blastocyst and litter sizes.
Methods: Twenty-four 6-week-old C57BL/6 female mice were divided
into control (CT) and POI groups. The POI condition was induced via
intraperitoneal chemotherapy injections while the CT group received PBS.
Each group was further divided into two subsets (n=6/group) 21 days after
POI induction: no punctures (CT-0 and POI-0) or 15 punctures (CT-15 and
POI-15). In the puncture groups, the IVFA technique was performed on
anesthetized mice with a 30-gauge needle. Controlled ovarian stimulation
was then induced with 10 IU of PMSG and 10 IU of hCG 48 hours later,
leading to mating with fertile males. Successful mating was confirmed the
next day by the presence of a vaginal plug. Forty-eight hours after hCG
injection, mice were euthanized to recover 2-cell embryos from the oviduct
and perform histological ovarian evaluation. Zygotes were cultured to
blastocyst stage. Ovaries (n=6/group) were analyzed for fibrosis. Natural
breeding performance was assessed for (n=3/group) over 3 months with
litter sizes recorded for 4 consecutive mating rounds.
Results: The number of blastocyst achieved was higher in the IVFA group
(CT-15, POI-15) compared to the non-intervention groups (CT-0 and
POI-0). Statistical significance was reached when comparing POI-15 and
POI-0 (6.2±3.4 vs 1.5±3.2; p=0.03). No differences in embryo morphology
were observed between the IVFA and non-intervention groups. Moreover,
mice in the POI groups showed significantly higher ovarian fibrosis levels
compared to CT (p<0.05), but no differences in fibrosis percentage were
observed between CT-15 and POI-15 compared to CT-0 and POI-0.
Finally, breeding trial showed higher cumulative litter sizes in POI-15
compared to POI-0 (2.3±2.0 vs 0.7±1.7; p=0.03).
Conclusion: The novel IVFA technique demonstrated a potential in
improving reproductive outcomes. If validated in humans, this approach
could offer a promising, non-invasive and fairly inexpensive solution for
women with POI.
S-047
Accuracy Limits in Measuring Fetal Heart Rate Signals Using Non-
Invasive Transabdominal Fetal Oximetry (TFO). Anna Curtin†,1 Begum
Kasap†,2 Kourosh Vali†,2 Tailai Lihe†,2 Conor King†,2 Chen Yuan†,3 Soheil
Ghiasi∗,2 Herman Hedriana∗.1 1University of California Davis, Sacramento,
CA, United States; 2University of California Davis, Davis, CA, United
States; 3University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, China.
Introduction: A novel transabdominal fetal pulse oximeter’s (TFO)
ability to differentiate between maternal and fetal heart rate (FHR) was
demonstrated in human subjects undergoing non-stress testing (NST) as
a proof-of-concept. Accurate FHR detection is crucial for obtaining pulse
oximetry data. This study analyzes how maternal body mass index (BMI)
and skin tone impact TFO’s ability to acquire fetal signals, characterizing
clinical operational limitations of the device.
Methods: Sixteen ongoing pregnancies (18-40 years old, singleton,
greater than or equal to 36 weeks gestational age) were enrolled.
Maternal skin tone was classified using the PANTONE SkinTone Guide
(values 1-10). Fetal depth from maternal skin to closest fetal part was
sonographically measured. TFO device was placed on the maternal
abdomen for 15-20 minutes. Reference FHR was recorded using fetal
cardiotocography. Mean absolute error (MAE) and standard deviation
(SD) between TFO and reference FHR were computed across skin tone
values and BMI categories (normal 18.5-24.99, overweight 25-29.99,
class 1 obesity 30-34.99, class 2 obesity 35-39.99, class 3 obesity 40+).
Results: When looking at results from 32 NST sessions, FHR estimates
fell within the expected normal range of 120-160 beats-per-minute (BPM).
The MAE ± SD between TFO FHR and reference cardiotocograph FHR
readings were compared across different BMI categories and skin tones.
Subject’s BMI degraded accuracy in some subjects. However, there was
no trend between TFO FHR error and BMI or skin tone.
Conclusion: This study found that skin tone and BMI do not consistently
impact TFO’s ability to estimate FHR. TFO’s performance is more
affected by other noise sources, such as motion. These findings suggest
TFO can estimate FHR across diverse people inclusive of physical
characteristics, though further improvement is needed to address motionrelated
inaccuracies.
S-048
A Point of Care Test at 36 Weeks’ Gestation Predicts Fetal Growth
Restriction. Libing Fu†,1 Dayong Jin,2 Susan Walker,3 Teresa MacDonald,3
Shihui Wen,1 Jiayan Liao,1 Ping Cannon,3 Tuong-Vi Nguyen,3 Danica
Idzes,3 Lucy Bartho,3 Stephen Tong,3 Tu’uhevaha Kaitu’u-Lino∗.3
1University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, Australia; 2University of
Technology Sydney, Heidelberg, Australia; 3University of Melbourne,
Heidelberg, Australia.
Introduction: Fetal growth restriction (FGR, birthweight <3rd centile)
reflects placental dysfunction and incurs a 10+ fold increased risk of
perinatal death. In the US, current practice (measuring maternal uterine
size with selective ultrasound) only identifies 14.5% (sensitivity) of babies
<3rd centile (92% specificity; Sparks et al., 2011). We previously reported
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 229A
Saturday Posters
low maternal circulating plasma serine peptidase inhibitor Kunitz type-1
(SPINT1) as associated with low birthweight (Nat Commun 2020). Here,
we developed a novel, point-of-care test for SPINT1, and measured
circulating levels at 36 weeks’ gestation to examine its performance as
a screening test for FGR.
Methods: To develop a SPINT1 point-of-care test, we utilized lanthanidedoped
up-conversion nanoparticles (UCNP)bioconjugated with the
SPINT1 detector antibody (UCNP-SPD) that we raised. The SPINT1
capture antibody was printed on a nitrocellulose membrane and assembled
into test strips. For sample testing, human plasma was diluted 40 times
in running buffer, mixed with UCNP-SPD, and 50 μL of mixture was
added to the sample pad. The signal of the reacted UCNP-SPD was read
after 10 min using a strip reader equipped with a 980 nm laser. SPINT1
levels were quantified by generating a standard curve of known SPINT1
concentrations.
A case cohort of 36 week plasma samples was selected from a prospective
population study in Melbourne. This included 30 cases who later delivered
an infant with FGR (birthweight <3rd centile using the GROW calculator)
and 111 randomly selected controls without FGR. Samples were run
blinded and in triplicate. Data was analysed using R.
Results: Median SPINT1 level was 49.4 ng/ml (IQR 34.7-68.3 ng/mL)
among 111 without FGR (the representative cohort). Median SPINT1
in those who later delivered with FGR was significantly lower (p =
1.56x10-5) at 30.9ng/mL (IQR 21.4- 46.5 ng/mL). The area under the
receiver operator curve (AUC) was 0.76 and the detection was 43.3%
(sensitivity) at 90% specificity.
Conclusion: Our SPINT1 point-of-care test identifies pregnancies at risk
of FGR better than current clinical care. It could be integrated into prenatal
clinics as a screening test to better identify pregnancies with placental
insufficiency and at 10-fold increased risk of stillbirth.
S-049
Rates of Fetal Growth Restriction and Small for Gestational Age
Neonates Before, During and After the COVID19 Pandemic. Sharon
Stortz†, Jennifer Culhane, Molly McAdow, Caitlin Partridge, Lisbet
Lundsberg∗. Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United
States.
Introduction: During acute COVID, many care teams made changes to
prenatal care appointment timing to limit patients’ exposure to COVID.
Since many appointments were spaced or virtual, we hypothesized fetal
growth restriction (FGR) diagnoses decreased in the general pregnant
population, possibly missing small for gestational age (SGA) neonates.
We examine rates of FGR and SGA during three epochs of the COVID19
pandemic: pre-Covid (PC), acute Covid (AC) and post-acute Covid (PAC)
at a single, tertiary care center.
Methods: This is a retrospective review of all patients with documented
care in the electronic health record (EHR) and singleton deliveries at ≥22
weeks of gestation at Yale-New Haven Hospital March 2018 to December
2022. Patients were assigned to an epoch by last menstrual period and
delivery date: AC (gestational age <20 weeks on 3/10/2020 and estimated
due date before 1/1/2021); PC and PAC were matched months for two
years before and two years after AC, respectively. Primary outcomes were
FGR by ICD-10 code and SGA <10th percentile by neonatal sex specific
standards. Patient attirbutes were compared with bivariate analyses and
COVID epoch, FGR, and SGA separately, using Chi-square tests or
ANOVA, as appropriate. Crude and adjusted logistic regression models
were performed, with covariates p<0.05 in bivariate associations with
COVID period and dependent variable, or with the dependent variable
alone, included in multivariable models. Adjusted odds ratios (aOR) and
95% confidence intervals (CI) are presented.
Results: 9692 patients were included. Across epochs there were
statistically significant differences in maternal age ≥35, BMI ≥30 at
delivery hospitalization, smoking, chronic hypertension (cHTN), and
hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP). For PC, AC and PAC there
were significant differences for mean (SD) number of prenatal care visits
(12.3 (4.5), 11.1 (4.3), 12.2 (4.4)) and ultrasounds (6.6 (4.3), 6.2 (4.2),
6.6 (4.3)), respectively. 838 (8.7%) patients were diagnosed with FGR
in PC, AC, PAC: 256 (6.9%), 201 (10.6%), and 371 (9.5%), respectively.
After adjustments for potential confounders, there was an increased odds
of FGR diagnosis in AC (aOR 1.76, 95%CI 1.44-2.16) compared to PC.
Increased odds of FGR persisted in PAC (aOR 1.64, 95%CI 1.38-1.94).
934 (9.7%) neonates were diagnosed with SGA: 400 (10.3%), 156 (8.3%)
and 378 (9.7%) during PC, AC and PAC, respectively. Compared to PC,
patients in AC had reduced odds of SGA (aOR 0.80, 05%CI 0.65-0.98).
No association was observed in PAC and SGA compared to PC.
Conclusion: During AC, FGR increased compared to PC, even after
adjusting for increased comorbidities and care patterns, while SGA
decreased during AC. This apparent incongruence during AC, PC, and
PAC may reflect confirmation bias in obstetrical ultrasounds during a
period of heightened concern for FGR.
S-050
Amnioinfusion for Meconium-Stained Amniotic Fluid: A Cost-Effective
Analysis. Stacia Hickey†, Ava Mandelbaum, Alyssa Hersh, Meredith
Haag, Aaron B Caughey∗. Oregon Health & Science University, Portland,
OR, United States.
Introduction: Amnioinfusion is a low-risk intrapartum intervention
historically used to reduce complications in patients with meconiumstained
amniotic fluid (MSAF). Recent data show that prophylactic
amnioinfusion significantly decreases the odds of meconium aspiration
syndrome (MAS), a sequela of MSAF that requires intensive neonatal
care. This study examines the outcomes, costs, and cost effectiveness of
amnioinfusion in pregnancies complicated by MSAF.
Methods: A decision-analytic model was constructed using TreeAge
software to compare the outcomes and the cost effectiveness of
prophylactic amnioinfusion versus no amnioinfusion for pregnancies
with MSAF. Our theoretical cohort included 280,000 patients based on
the estimated number of annual live births complicated by moderate to
thick MSAF. Clinical outcomes included cesarean delivery, maternal
death, neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) admission, MAS diagnosis,
neonatal death, and neurodevelopmental delay. We used a willingnessto-
pay threshold of $100,000 per quality adjusted life year (QALY).
Model inputs were derived from the literature. Sensitivity analyses were
completed to assess the robustness of the results.
Results: In our theoretical cohort of 280,000 pregnant people,
amnioinfusion resulted in 18,200 fewer cesarean deliveries, 2 fewer
maternal deaths, 4,212 fewer NICU admissions, 16,240 fewer
cases of MAS, 186 fewer neonatal deaths, and 823 fewer cases of
neurodevelopmental delay when compared to no amnioinfusion.
Additionally, amnioinfusion resulted in cost savings of $1,581,803,396
USD and an increase in 20,687 QALYs, a so-called dominant strategy.
Conclusion: Our study shows that amnioinfusion is a cost-effective
intervention and leads to improved perinatal outcomes. These findings may
inform clinical decision-making by supporting the use of amnioinfusion
as a preventative measure to enhance perinatal outcomes and optimize
resource allocation in managing pregnancies affected by MSAF.
S-051
Adrenomedullin in Gestational Diabetes. Lena A Shay, Simone
Hernandez-Ruano, Carroll Matthew, Madhu Chauhan, Chandra Yallampalli,
Kathleen A. Pennington∗. Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX,
United States.
Introduction: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) affects 7-18% of
all pregnancies and is associated with numerous short- and long-term
complications for both mother and fetus. Mechanisms underlying the
pathophysiology of GDM, and its adverse effects are not fully understood.
Adrenomedullin (ADM), a calcitonin gene-related peptide, and its
signaling have been implicated to play a deleterious role in GDM. ADM
activity has yet to be fully quantified in humans at mid-pregnancy. We seek
to quantify serum ADM levels at the mid-trimester, when GDM screening
is occurring, and determine if ADM levels are elevated in women who are
diagnosed with GDM compared to normal glucose tolerant (NGT) women.
Methods: Prospective cohort study enrolled pregnant women between
24-28 weeks gestation receiving prenatal care at our institution.
Participants were recruited and maternal serum samples were collected
230A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
prior to diagnosis or treatment at the time of routine clinical screening for
GDM. Serum ADM levels were analyzed using a human ADM ELISA
kit (Elabscience).
Results: A total of 19 women were enrolled. Four women were diagnosed
with GDM, and the remainder were NGT. Results demonstrated elevated
levels of ADM at the mid-trimester of pregnancy in participants with a
diagnosis of GDM compared to NGT group (p=0.0991)
Conclusion: Our results demonstrate that maternal serum ADM levels
differ in women with NGT and GDM, prior to GDM diagnosis. This
supports the hypothesis that elevations in ADM may play a role in GDM
pathophysiology. Studies to validate these results are ongoing, as well as
studies to compare ADM levels from the mid-trimester to term within the
same pregnancy. Additional investigations include correlation of serum
ADM levels to infant anthropometric data, as well as studies on ADM
activity in placental tissue and cord blood.
S-052
Maternal Obesity in Pregnancy Alters Fetal Cardiac Baroreflex
Function. A L Cochrane†, R C Crew, Y Niu, S G Ford, S H Davison,
C L Cahen, M P Murphy, S E Ozanne, D A Giussani∗. University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Rates of obesity have reached epidemic proportions,
including in individuals entering pregnancy. This is concerning as obesity
during pregnancy also has lifelong implications, with evidence for an
increased risk of cardiovascular disease in the adult offspring (Godfrey et
al. Lancet Diab Endo. 5:53-64, 2017). However, the impacts of maternal
obesity in pregnancy on fetal cardiovascular health is under-investigated.
Here, using a novel ovine model, we tested the hypothesis that maternal
obesity during pregnancy impairs fetal cardiac baroreflex function.
Methods: Welsh mountain ewes were fed from 60 days pre-pregnancy and
throughout gestation either with a control diet (C, recommended dietary
intake of concentrates and ad. lib. access to hay) or an obesogenic diet (OB,
ad. lib. access to concentrates and hay). At 117±2 days gestation (dGA,
term is ca. 147 days), under general anaesthesia, catheters and Transonic
flow probes were placed in the fetal carotid and femoral circulations.
At 126±3 days, fetal cardiovascular responses to acute hypertension
through fetal i.a. doses of phenylephrine (PE, α-adrenergic agonist) were
determined. At least one hour after return to baseline, fetal cardiovascular
responses to acute hypotension were recorded through fetal i.v. infusion
of sodium nitroprusside (SNP, nitric oxide donor) at 5μ/kg/min for 10
minutes. Data (mean±SEM) for C (n=7-9) and OB (n=8-14) were analysed
with the Student’s t test or the sum-of-squares F test, as appropriate.
Results: Fetal arterial blood pressure (C vs. OB, 42.9±1.6 vs. 39.6±1.2
mmHg) and heart rate (172.3 ±4.5 vs. 168.1±2.9 bpm) were similar at
baseline. Fetuses of obese pregnancy showed a blunted increase in blood
pressure in response to PE (C vs. OB, +17.9±1.4 vs. +11.8±1.1 mmHg
change to maximum dose, P<0.01), but no differences in heart rate
response (C vs. OB, -37.6±8.0 vs. -43.5±4.4 bpm change to maximum
dose, P>0.1), demonstrating higher vagal cardiac baroreflex sensitivity
(P<0.01). In contrast, SNP infusion induced a comparable fall in blood
pressure (C vs. OB, -39.3±1.8 vs. -35.6±1.1 area under curve, P>0.05),
but tachycardia was markedly impaired in fetuses of obese pregnancy (C
vs. OB, +49.6±25.0 vs. -14.0±16.4 area under curve, P<0.05), showing
impaired sympathetic cardiac baroreflex sensitivity (P<0.01). Maternal
obesity in pregnancy also reduced fetal low frequency: high frequency
(LF:HF) heart rate variability at baseline (C vs. OB, 0.86±0.14 vs.
0.56±0.06, P<0.05).
Conclusion: Maternal obesity in pregnancy results in altered fetal cardiac
baroreflex sensitivity, with enhanced vagal and blunted sympathetic
components. This may be due to enhanced cardiac parasympathetic
dominance, indicated by reduced LF:HF heart rate variability. This may
contribute to a fetal origin of impaired cardiovascular homeostasis in
offspring of obese pregnancy.
Supported by the MRC & the British Heart Foundation
S-053
Severity of Gestational Weight Gain in Patients with and without
Prior Bariatric Surgery. Jamie A. Green†, Nathan A. Keller†, Frank I.
Jackson†, Sarah Abelman†, Luis A. Bracero, Matthew J. Blitz. Northwell
Health South Shore University Hospital, Bay Shore, NY, United States.
Introduction: Excessive weight gain in pregnancy increases the risk of
complications such as gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, and cesarean
delivery. Achieving appropriate weight gain supports healthy pregnancy
and delivery outcomes for both the mother and baby. This study aimed
to determine whether a history of bariatric surgery is associated with the
degree or severity of excessive gestational weight gain (EGWG).
Methods: Retrospective cohort study of pregnancies within a large health
care system in New York from 2019-2023. A history of bariatric surgery
included any of the following: gastric sleeve, gastric band, Roux-en-Y
gastric bypass, and biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch. The
primary outcomes were EGWG and severe GWG (SGWG). EGWG was
defined as exceeding the recommended upper limit of total weight gain
for a given prepregnancy body mass index category: > 40, > 35, > 25,
and > 20 pounds for underweight (BMI < 18.5 kg/m2), normal weight
(BMI: 18.5-24.9 kg/m2), overweight (25-29.9 kg/m2), and obese (> 30 kg/
m2) patients, respectively. SGWG was defined as > 50 pounds of weight
gain regardless of BMI. BMI categorization was based on pre-pregnancy
weight and height. Multivariable logistic regression was used to estimate
the strength of association between bariatric surgery and EGWG and
SGWG adjusting for obesity class, advanced maternal age, nulliparity,
pre-existing diabetes, and race and ethnicity. All statistical analyses were
performed in R 4.3.1.
Results: In total, 122,979 pregnancies were included in the study with 347
(0.3%) with and 122,632 (99.7%) without a history of bariatric surgery.
After adjustments, there were no significant differences in EGWG or
SGWG in patients with or without a history of bariatric surgery, aOR
[95% CI]: 1.20 [0.96-1.49] and 1.25 [0.86-1.75], respectively. Nulliparity
was associated with an increased likelihood of both EGWG and SGWG,
aOR [95% CI]: 1.31 [1.27-1.34] and 1.56 [1.50-1.63], respectively.
Patients of all three obesity classes were less likely to have SGWG than
non-obese patients. Patients with class 3 obesity were less likely to have
EGWG or SGWG, aOR [95%: CI]: 0.84 [0.78-0.91] and 0.54 [0.46-0.63],
respectively.
Conclusion: EGWG and SGWG did not differ based on a history of
bariatric surgery.
S-054
Mid-Pregnancy Long-Chain Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids Are
Associated with DHA-Containing Supplement Use and Neonatal
Anthropometric Measures at Birth: Results from Two Italian
Multicenter Cohorts. Francesca Parisi,1 Chiara Mandò,2 Chiara Novielli,3
Gaia Maria Anelli,2 Chiara Lubrano,1 Clara Repossini,2 Vittoria Cosi,2
Roberta Cazzola,2 Irene Cetin.1 1Univ degli Studi di Milano; Fondazione
IRCCS Ca’ Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milano, Italy; 2Univ
degli Studi di Milano, Milano, Italy; 3ASST Fatebenefratelli-Sacco, Milano,
Italy.
Introduction: Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) are
essential nutrients for feto-placental development. We aimed to evaluate
associations between maternal mid-pregnancy LC-PUFAs, DHAcontaining
supplement use and delivery outcomes.
Methods: A secondary analysis of two Italian multicenter cohorts was
performed including healthy Caucasian non-obese women with a singleton
spontaneous pregnancy. 285 pregnant women were included, divided
into DHA-Supplemented (DHAS, n=167) and Non-Supplemented (NS,
n=113) groups. DHAS received a multivitamin containing 200 mg DHA.
A fasting venous blood sampling for LC-PUFA analysis was performed
between 24 and 34 gestational weeks. Pregnancy outcomes were collected
at delivery. Multi-adjusted generalized linear models were performed to
assess the associations between supplementation-based group, LC-PUFA
concentrations, and pregnancy outcomes.
Results: The DHAS group showed an increase in EPA and DHA
concentrations, and a decrease in the ARA/EPA ratio compared to the
NS group. No associations were detected between LC-PUFA profile
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 231A
Saturday Posters
and gestational age at delivery. Conversely, birth weight was positively
associated with DHA and total LC-PUFA n-3 concentrations, and
negatively associated with the LC-PUFA n-6/n-3 ratio, with an estimated
reduced birth weight by 192.8 grams among women with DHA levels
below the fifth percentile. Neonatal Ponderal Index (NPI) was negatively
associated with LC-PUFA n-6 concentrations.
Conclusion: Overall, these results highlight significant associations
between DHA-containing multivitamin supplementation and LC-PUFA
n-3 and n-6 status, which is further associated with increased birth weight
and reduced NPI. Our results suggest the use of both maternal n-3 and n-6
series as clinical biomarkers of DHA status and predictors of intrauterine
growth and neonatal adiposity.
S-055
Dual Impact of Interpersonal and Macrostructural Support on Food
Distress of Third-Trimester Mothers. Kendall P. Brady†,1 Jordan
Tasman†,2 Jill M. Maples∗,3,4 Rebecca Purvis†,4 Walter Schoutko∗,4 Patricia
N.E. Roberson∗.1,4 1University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN, United States;
2Mercer University, Macon, GA, United States; 3University of Tennessee
College of Medicine, Knoxville, TN, United States; 4University of Tennessee
Medical Center, Knoxville, TN, United States.
Introduction: Maternal food distress increases the risk of adverse
perinatal outcomes, including gestational metabolic and hypertensive
disorders, abnormal fetal growth and birth weights, and complications
at delivery. Food insecurity in East Tennessee (14%) is higher than the
national average.
Methods: This pilot study utilizes self-report cross-sectional survey
data from pregnant individuals (n= 29) receiving prenatal care at a
clinic in East Tennessee during late pregnancy to evaluate relationships
between maternal food distress (e.g., food insecurity and diet quality),
psychological distress (e.g., anxiety, depression, perceived stress, and life
satisfaction), and interpersonal (e.g., social support) and macrostructural
(e.g., federal nutrition assistance) support.
Results: We conducted bi-variate correlational analyses to examine
associations that were statistically significant (p < .05) and statistically
trending (p < .10) among all variables of interest. Although macrostructural
and interpersonal support were not directly linked to food insecurity, food
insecurity was positively associated with elevated anxiety (r= 0.429; p=
0.02) and high saturated fat (r= 0.630; p= 0.001) and red/processed meat
(r= 0.338; p= 0.07) consumption. While macrostructural support correlated
with more depressive symptoms (r= 0.359; p= 0.06), social support was
significantly linked to fewer depressive symptoms (r= -0.428; p= 0.02)
and lower anxiety (r= -0.461; p= 0.01). Relationship satisfaction was
associated with less lean meat (r= -0.499; p= 0.006), sweets (r= -0.397;
p= 0.03), and fish (r= -0.416; p= 0.03) consumption, yet macrostructural
support was linked to greater lean mean consumption (r= 0.327; p= 0.08).
Conclusion: These findings suggest utilization of multilevel interventions
targeted toward mitigating food distress during pregnancy through dual
benefit of macrostructural and interpersonal support, where relationship
quality posits a promising mechanism in reducing maternal psychological
distress to improve perinatal outcomes. Next steps include examining
these associations in multivariate statistical models.
S-058
Both Vascular and Inflammatory Patterns of Placental Injury
are Associated with Small-for-Gestational Age Babies. Anushka R
Edlabadkar†, Sierra Adkins, Jennifer Chousal, Omonigho Aisagbonhi,
Maya Selvaraj, Morgan Meads, Marni B Jacobs, Mana Parast. University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, United States.
Introduction: Small for gestational age (SGA, birthweight <10th
percentile for gestational age/GA) may indicate poor fetal growth, and
is frequently associated with adverse outcomes. Placental pathologic
evaluation can reveal patterns of injury, which may explain the underlying
pathophysiology of SGA. In the current study, we set out to determine
the association of placental injury patterns, alone or in combination, with
SGA, independent of clinical disease.
Methods: The present study used data from an ongoing cohort of
pregnancies in the UCSD Obstetric Registry. Participants who delivered
a singleton infant at or after 23 weeks GA, with complete records on
maternal hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HTN), diabetes (DM),
and placental pathology evaluation, were included (n = 2,629). Placental
patterns of injury included maternal vascular malperfusion (MVM), fetal
vascular malperfusion (FVM), and the inflammatory lesions, villitis of
unknown etiology (VUE) and acute chorioamnionitis (ACA). Sex-specific
birthweight percentiles for GA were calculated. The prevalence of SGA
in the various pathology lesions, including mixed lesions, was compared
to placentas without pathologic lesions (no pathology) using chi-square,
both overall and among subsets of patients with HTN, DM, or neither.
Results: Within the whole cohort, the prevalence of SGA was
significantly elevated in MVM, ACA, vascular (MVM+FVM), and mixed
vascular+inflammatory lesions (MVM+FVM and VUE+ACA) [26.3%,
7.5%, 38.2%, and 15.9%, respectively, vs. 3.8% in the no pathology group;
all p<0.004]. Similarly, in the DM cohort, the prevalence of SGA was
elevated in the same pathology groups [20.0%, 7.9%, 21.1%, and 12.3%,
respectively, vs 2.3% in the no pathology group; all p<0.04]. In patients
with HTN, the prevalence of SGA was only elevated in MVM, vascular,
and mixed lesions [26.1%, 39.2%, and 19.2%, respectively, vs. 5.3% in
the no pathology group; all p<0.001]. In patients without either HTN or
DM, the prevalence of SGA was elevated in MVM, ACA, vascular, mixed
lesion as well as VUE [26.0%, 7%, 37.5%, 13.1%, and 8.8% respectively,
vs 2.7% in the no pathology group; all p <0.02]. SGA was not significantly
elevated in FVM or mixed inflammatory lesions (VUE+ACA).
Conclusion: As a single lesion, MVM is most associated with increased
prevalence of SGA. Surprisingly, ACA was also associated with an
increased prevalence of SGA, while VUE was only associated with
this outcome in patients without HTN or DM. Incorporating placental
pathology into clinical assessment of SGA may provide a mechanism
for distinguishing between constitutionally small babies and those with
pathologic growth restriction.
S-059
Right Instrument, Right Patient, Right Time: Delivery with Vacuum
and Forceps versus Vacuum Alone. Deirdre Arthur,1 George Timmons†,2
Michael P O’Connell,1 Mark Philip Hehir∗.1 1The Coombe Hospital, Dublin,
Ireland; 2Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin, Ireland.
Introduction: Forceps delivery has decreased in frequency over time
which has lead to clinicians citing a decreased level of experience and
confidence with the instrument. Similarly caution has been urged in the
sequential use of delivering instruments at the time of operative vaginal
delivery (OVD) due to excessive traction on the fetal head and the potential
for associated adverse outcomes. We sought to examine outcomes of
deliveries using vacuum followed by forceps with those where forceps
was the only instrument applied.
Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study of all operative vaginal
deliveries over a ten year period from 2011-2020 at a tertiary referral
academic center in Dublin Ireland. Demographics (age, BMI, onset of
labor, gestation and birthweight) and morbidity outcomes (episiotomy,
3rd and 4th degree tear, Apgar < 7 at 5 minutes, arterial cord pH and
NICU admission) at operative vaginal delivery were examined for cases
of sequential use of vacuum followed by forceps compared with cases
where forceps was the only instrument used.
Results: There were 4573 OVDs in our study cohort, 661 requiring
sequential use of vacuum followed by forceps and 3912 using forceps
alone. There was no difference seen in maternal age, BMI, onset of labor or
being beyond 40 weeks gestation. Those requiring sequential instruments
had heavier babies than those requiring forceps alone (3589g±433 vs.
3549g±445; p=0.03; 95% CI 3.37-76.6). Rates of episiotomy were similar
in both groups but those requiring sequential instruments had higher rates
of 3rd or 4th degree perineal injury (10.3% (68/661) vs. 7.6% (299/3912);
p=0.02; 95% CI 0.43-5.3). Rates of shoulder dystocia were similar in
both groups and infants requiring sequential instruments were no more
likely to have an Apgar score of <7 at 5 minutes of life. Infants delivered
using sequential instruments had higher rates of arterial cord pH of <7.1
(9.4% (62/661) vs. 6.2% (242/3912); p=0.002; 95% CI 1.05 - 5.8) and
admission to neonatal ICU (6.2% (41/661) vs. 4.3% (167/3912); p=0.03;
95% CI 0.16 - 4.1).
232A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Conclusion: Deliveries involving sequential use of a vacuum followed
by a forceps carry maternal and neonatal morbidity in excess of those
delivered by forceps alone. In embarking on an operative vaginal birth,
the operator should prioritise the appropriate use of a single intervention,
including consideration for primary forceps selection or recourse to
caesarean delivery.
S-060
Severe Maternal Morbidity After Expectant Management of Pre/
Periviable Rupture of Membranes in Singleton versus Multiple
Gestations. Courtney T Connolly†, Siwei Xie, Ethan Gough, Marika A
Toscano∗. Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Management of pre- or periviable prelabor preterm rupture
of membranes (PPROM) includes expectant management or interruption
of pregnancy. There is limited data on maternal outcomes of expectant
management of PPROM in multiple gestations, which limits a clinician’s
ability to adequately counsel this patient population. Our study compared
severe maternal morbidity (SMM) and mortality between singleton and
multiple gestations after pre- or periviable PPROM in individuals electing
for expectant management. We hypothesized that expectant management
in multiple gestations would be associated with higher rates of SMM.
Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study of individuals electing
expectant management of PPROM diagnosed at 14w0d - 23w6d in a
single hospital system from 1/1/2011-12/31/2023, excluding pregnancies
with major fetal urinary tract anomalies, spontaneous delivery within 24
hours of PPROM, contraindications to expectant management of PPROM,
or missing outcome data. Primary outcome was SMM by CDC’s 21
indicators compared between singleton and multiple gestations. Normality
of distribution was evaluated, and continuous outcomes compared with
Mann-Whitney-U tests. Chi-square/Fisher’s exact tests were used for
categorical outcomes. Data was analyzed in STATA.
Results: 69 singleton and 34 multiple gestations (n=19 dichorionic/
diamniotic, 11 monochorionic/diamniotic, 2 monochorionic/
monoamniotic, 2 unknown) were included. Multiple gestations were
more likely to have a prior history of preterm labor and history of uterine
surgery. Median gestational age (GA) at time of PPROM diagnosis was
21 weeks for both cohorts. Compared to singletons, multiple gestations
delivered at significantly later GA (median 25.22 (IQR 21.68-29.11) weeks
vs. 23.43 (21.00-24.14) weeks, p=0.0016), had longer latency (13 (2.25-
65.25) days vs. 6 (2-12) days, p=0.0243), and were more likely to deliver
later than 25w0d (52.90% vs 15.87%, p=0.0002). Multiple gestations also
had significantly higher risk of experiencing at least one of the 21 CDC
indicators of severe maternal morbidity (29.4% vs. 5.8%, p=0.0019). This
was largely driven by increased rates of blood transfusion in multiple
gestations (20.59% vs. 2.9%, p=0.0055) despite lower rates of patients
requiring classical Cesarean section (14.71% vs. 25.40%, p=0.0220). Up
to 8.8% of multiple gestations developed sepsis and pulmonary edema.
There were no maternal deaths in either group.
Conclusion: Expectant management of pre- or periviable PPROM in
multiple gestations is associated with a longer latency period and more
advanced GA at delivery. However, patients with multiple gestations that
undergo expectant management experience a significantly higher risk of
SMM compared with singletons.
S-062
Residential Proximity to Green Spaces, Ozone and Temperature
and Birth Weight Outcomes in a Semi-Arid Desert. Samantha Dinh†.
Creighton University School of Medicine, Phoenix, AZ, United States.
Introduction: This study examines the relationship of maternal proximity
to green space, ozone levels, and climate temperature on birth weight
outcomes in Phoenix, Arizona and aims to consider the interactions of
environmental discrimination in a semi-arid desert that impact expectant
mothers’ abilities to achieve optimal birth outcomes.
Methods: A retrospective cohort study was performed using birth
weight data from St. Joseph Hospital from 2018 to 2020. Macro level
environmental data used: Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI)
from Landsat 8-9 for green space, ozone Air Quality Index data, and
average monthly temperature from the National Weather Service. Each
factor was separated into quintiles and linear regression was performed.
Results: Of the 14,000 deliveries, 8,462 met inclusion criteria for green
space and 8,716 of deliveries met inclusion criteria for temperature
and ozone. NDVI and birth weight were inversely correlated, and not
statistically significant (p=0.068). Maternal age was positively correlated
with birth weight (p<0.05) and white mothers (79.85%) were associated
with increased birth weight (p<0.05). The highest income quartile was
associated with a decreasing birth weight trend (p=0.018). However,
preliminary analysis of NDVI and LBW as a binary variable revealed
statistical significance, with a 20-30% chance of LBW with the lowest
NDVI quintile. Temperature was inversely correlated with birth weight
(p=0.008), with statistical significance in the 5th quartile (highest
temperature) (p=0.016). Ozone was also inversely correlated with birth
weight (p=0.003).
Conclusion: In Phoenix, Arizona, increasing temperature and ozone
levels were significantly inversely correlated with birth weight. There is
an inversely correlated trend towards significance for proximity to green
space and birth weight. Further analysis is needed to demonstrate if low
birth weight as a binary variable is correlated with green space.
S-063
Predictive Factors Determining Admission of Infants Born to Mothers
with Diabetes to the NICU. Alexandra Marko†,1 Akshaya Vachharajani∗,2
Jean Goodman∗.2 1University of Missouri School of Medicine, Columbia,
MO, United States; 2University of Missouri Hospital, Columbia, MO,
United States.
Introduction: Diabetes is a very common metabolic disease worldwide,
and gestational diabetes affects approximately twenty-five percent of
pregnant women leading to suboptimal outcomes for the infant.1 This
study aims to investigate a cohort of pregnant women with diabetes and
determine what factors related to diabetes are predictive of their neonates
requiring Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) Admission.
Methods: A retrospective chart review was conducted on 203 pregnant
women with diabetes (after exclusions including multiple gestations,
gestational age <35 weeks, and incomplete prenatal records). Infants
admitted to the NICU were compared to those who were not. Diabetes
was classified as pregestational (type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes)
and gestational. Demographic features for the dyad, maternal amniotic
fluid index (AFI), BMI (body mass index), hemoglobin A1C, vaginal
versus C-section delivery, were collected. Binomial data were analyzed
via Fisher Exact Coefficient and continuous data were analyzed using
Mann-Whitney U Test. Significance was determined to be at (p value <
0.05). Multivariate regression was performed on variables found to be
significant on univariate analysis.
Results: Of the 203 mothers, 38 mothers had neonates that were admitted
to the NICU while 165 did not require NICU admission. Comparing the
two groups, there was a significant difference between gestational age
(p<0.00001), maternal age (p=0.0198), type of diabetes (pregestational
versus gestational) (p<0.00001), earliest A1c (p=0.00124), insulin vs
non-insulin (p=0.0002), polyhydramnios (p=0.0001), type of delivery
(p=0.0109), and amniotic fluid index (AFI) (p=0.00132). Regression
analysis found type of maternal diabetes, AFI, and gestational age of
infant in weeks to be significant factors predicting admission to the NICU.
Conclusion: Maternal pregestational diabetes amniotic fluid index, and
gestational age of infant at delivery were found to be significant predictors
of neonates requiring higher acuity of care via admission to the NICU.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 233A
Saturday Posters
S-064
Pregnancy-Associated Cancer as a Predictor of Adverse Perinatal
Outcomes: An EHR-Based Analysis. Shruti Kolli†,1 Manoj S Kambara†,2
Farhad Dastmalchi∗,2 Mamoun Mardini∗,2 Lusine Yaghjyan∗,3 Dominick J
Lemas∗.2 1University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States; 2University
of Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL, United States; 3University
of Florida College of Public Health and Health Professions, Gainesville,
FL, United States.
Introduction: Cancer is a leading cause of mortality among women of
reproductive age. Pregnancy-associated cancers (PAC) present unique
challenges due to the concurrent management of maternal health and fetal
development. This study evaluates how PAC is associated with infant
outcomes, providing clinical insights for supporting maternal and infant
health in the perinatal population.
Methods: We utilized electronic health records (EHR) from the University
of Florida Integrated Data Repository (UF IDR) to evaluate PAC and infant
outcomes. Data were available for mother-infant pairs from 2011 to 2021
(n=28,530 records), with PAC status determined using diagnosis dates and
ICD-9/10 codes. PAC was defined as a cancer diagnosis occurring during
pregnancy or within one year postpartum. Cancer outside pregnancy
(COP) was defined as a cancer diagnosis before pregnancy or after one
year postpartum. Propensity-score matching (3:1) was utilized to compare
outcomes among patients with PAC, COP, and no cancer diagnosis.
Statistical analyses including t-tests were conducted to compare timerelated
and biometric data from the EHR.
Results: Of the 12,335 eligible records, 252 cancer cases were identified,
with 99 classified as PAC and 153 as COP. The most common cancer types
were breast, thyroid, leukemia, lymphoma, and melanoma, and the third
trimester was the most frequent period of cancer diagnosis. Infants born
to mothers with PAC and COP had significantly lower birth weights (pPAC
= 0.018, pCOP = 0.015) and shorter gestational ages compared to those
born to mothers with no cancer diagnosis (pPAC = 0.022, pCOP = 0.0003).
Conclusion: Cancers during and outside of pregnancy are both significant
predictors of adverse maternal and infant outcomes, contributing to lower
birth weights and shorter gestational periods. Clinical implications include
the necessity for healthcare providers to consider tailored monitoring
and management protocols for pregnant women with cancer, regardless
of when they were diagnosed. Early intervention strategies could help
mitigate the risks of preterm birth and low birth weight, improving
perinatal outcomes. Moreover, our results highlight the importance of
developing multidisciplinary care approaches, integrating oncology and
obstetrics services, to ensure comprehensive care for both mother and
child in the context of perinatal cancer.
S-065
Examining Disparate Outcomes After Implementation of a Maternal
Fetal Medicine Directed Accreta Program. Debra Eluobaju†, Arthur J
Vaught, Kristin L Martin∗. Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Peripartum hysterectomy for placenta accreta spectrum
(PAS) is a high-risk and complex pelvic surgery with management
often requiring multidisciplinary services. Lack of access to these
services can increase severe maternal morbidity (SMM) and maternal
mortality especially in women of color. Ensuring equitable care to reduce
disparities should be at the forefront of “Accreta Program” creation. The
objective of this research was to examine the presence of disparities in
outcomes for women of color compared to White women in pre- and
post-implementation of a Maternal Fetal Medicine Directed Accreta
Program (MDAP).
Methods: This is a retrospective, pre- and post-implementation cohort
study originally comparing both feasibility and maternal outcomes of
PAS in a Pre-Program (2008-2017) cohort versus an MDAP (2018-2024)
in a large regional perinatal center. The investigators further examined
outcomes based on race: White and non-White (Black, Hispanic, Asian,
Native-American, Pacific Islander). All patients received a peripartum
hysterectomy at delivery and confirmed pathologic and clinical diagnosis
for PAS. Statistical analyses were performed using STATA; associations
were assessed using chi-square test, Mann-Whitney U, or t-test when
appropriate.
Results: There were 58 women in the pre-MDAP group (31 of which
were considered of color). There were 87 total women in the post-MDAP
group (48 of which were considered of color). The majority of women of
color in the pre- and post-MDAP groups were Black: 22 (71%) and 32
(66%) respectively. There were no differences in perioperative outcomes
when comparing White and women of color within each group. However,
importantly, women of color had significantly less packed red blood cell
transfusion requirements from the pre-MDAP group to the post-MDAP
group (4 vs 2, p=0.05) and intensive care unit (ICU) admission, (48%
vs 17%, p= 0.002).
Conclusion: With program implementation, women of color may have
continued disparate maternal outcomes. Thus, ensuring equitable care is
imperative in program implementation. Although there were no differences
within pre- and post-MDAP groups when stratified by race, we found
significant median reduction in blood transfusion and ICU admission
for women of color. These data suggest that with equitable and inclusive
care, SMM outcomes may be reduced in women of color like their White
counterparts.
S-067
Maternal Electronic Cigarette Exposure Alters Cardiac Transcriptomic
Profile, Leading to Cardiac Dysfunction in Offspring. Jiazichao Tu†,
Yong Li, jie jian, Rong jun Yu, daliao Xiao. Loma Linda university, Loma
Linda, CA, United States.
Introduction: The rise of electronic cigarettes (e-cig) has sparked
significant debate regarding their safety, particularly among teenagers
and women of reproductive age. Increasing evidence suggests potential
adverse effects on fetal development, including previously documented
impacts on offspring brain development. However, the effects of maternal
e-cig exposure on cardiac function and underlying mechanisms in
offspring remain largely unexplored.We hypothesized that maternal
e-cigarette exposure alters transcriptomic signatures, leading to the
development of cardiac dysfunction in offspring.
Methods: Pregnant SD rats were exposed to e-cig aerosol from the fourth
(E4) to the twentieth (E20) day of gestation. RNA-Seq analysis was
conducted on heart tissues from control and e-cigarette exposed offspring.
Cardiac function was evaluated through echocardiography before and
after ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) procedures.
Results: Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of RNA-Seq data
demonstrated distinct transcriptomic profiles between control and
e-cigarette exposed groups. We identified 429 differentially expressed
genes (DEGs) in male offspring and 44 DEGs in female offspring, with
nine genes common to both sexes. Gene ontology (GO) analysis indicated
that prenatal e-cigarette exposure caused sex-dependent alterations
in signaling pathways related to cardiac development and function,
including cardiac hypertrophy, Apelin signaling, TGF-β, NFAT, EIF2, and
aryl hydrocarbon pathways. Furthermore, prenatal e-cigarette exposure
impaired baseline heart function and exacerbated I/R-induced cardiac
infarction and dysfunction.
Conclusion: Maternal e-cigarette exposure disrupts cardiac transcriptomic
profiles and impairs contractile function in offspring, potentially leading
to deficits in cardiac reserve. Further investigation into the underlying
molecular mechanisms is warranted, along with the exploration of
prospective therapeutic interventions.
S-068
Effects of a Maternal Ketogenic Diet on Offspring Health in Mice.
Simone Hernandez-Ruano, Rachel A Kracaw, Isabella A Cervantes,
Antonio Ruano, Moises Tacam, Kathleen A. Pennington∗. Baylor College
of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States.
Introduction: Ketogenic (keto) diets have gained popularity due to their
potential benefits on weight loss and metabolic conditions, including
polycystic ovarian syndrome. However, the effects of consuming a keto
diet before, during, and after pregnancy on maternal and offspring health
remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that consuming a keto diet
234A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
before, during and after pregnancy would (1) negatively impact maternal
health during pregnancy resulting in metabolic dysfunction and (2) result
in an increased incidence of metabolic syndrome in offspring.
Methods: At 7 weeks of age, female Swiss Webster mice (Charles River
Laboratories) were randomly divided into two groups: keto (20% protein,
5% carbohydrate, 75% fat) or control (20% protein, 70% carbohydrate,
10% fat). At 6 weeks females were mated to proven breeder males and
maintained on their respective diets throughout pregnancy and lactation.
Exp. 1: At day 16.5 of pregnancy glucose tolerance tests (GTT) were
performed in control (n=5) and keto (n=3) dams, at day 17.5 of pregnancy
dams were euthanized, urine was collected for ketone analysis, and fetal
and placental weights were obtained. Exp. 2: Dams were allowed to give
birth and at weaning, 2 male and 2 female offspring per dam (control n=9;
keto n=7) were kept and weighed weekly. At 12 weeks of age, GTTs were
performed and then offspring were euthanized. Blood was collected for
serum insulin and leptin analysis.
Results: Exp. 1: At day 16.5, keto dams weighed significantly more
(p<0.05) and exhibited impaired glucose tolerance (p<0.05) compared
to controls. Keto dams had significantly increased ketones in their urine
(p<0.05) compared to controls. Fetal weights were significantly decreased
(p<0.05) from keto compared to control dams. Placental weights and
placental efficiency were not different. Exp. 2: Keto offspring consistently
weighed less (p<0.05) than control offspring regardless of sex. At 12 weeks
of age, glucose tolerance was not different among offspring. Serum insulin
levels were significantly (p<0.05) decreased in female, but not male, keto
offspring compared to controls. Serum leptin levels were not different
between keto and control offspring regardless of sex.
Conclusion: Keto dams exhibited metabolic dysfunction during
pregnancy as evidenced by increased weights and urine ketones as well as
glucose intolerance compared to control dams. This metabolic dysfunction
during pregnancy resulted in smaller offspring through 12 weeks of age.
While glucose tolerance was not impaired in keto offspring, female
keto offspring did exhibit decreased serum insulin levels compared to
controls. This data suggests that consumption of a ketogenic before and
during pregnancy can result in maternal metabolic dysfunction which
may negatively impact offspring health. Further studies may investigate
long term outcomes.
S-069
Childhood Obesity Following Treatment of A2GDM with Insulin versus
Metformin. Khadija Alshowaikh†, Benjamin Pifer†, Lisbet Lundsberg,
Jennifer Culhane, Grace Jarmoc†, Katarina Braun†, Caroline King†,
Audrey Merriam. Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Gestational diabetes (GDM) is one of the most common
pregnancy-related complications occurring in around 8% of US
pregnancies. Of these, around 15% of individuals typically require
medication, in the form of metformin or insulin, for glycemic management.
There has yet to be a US-based study comparing childhood outcomes
after prenatal exposure of these medications. We aim to assess childhood
obesity and other pediatric outcomes between 3 and 5 years of age after
in utero use of metformin or insulin for GDM.
Methods: This is a retrospective study of individuals at 3 to 5 years of age
previously delivered at a tertiary hospital from May 2018 to April 2021
in patients diagnosed with GDM. Data were extracted from the electronic
medical record. Individuals born to patients with pregestational DM, GDM
diagnosed before 24 weeks, multifetal gestations, those who delivered
before 24 weeks or with missing data were excluded. GDM treatment
groups were categorized as: none, metformin only, insulin only, or both
metformin and insulin. The primary outcome was childhood obesity,
defined as body mass index (BMI) ≥95th percentile according to Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) age and sex-specific growth
charts. Bivariate analyses were performed to examine the association
between childhood obesity and GDM treatment, maternal attributes
(age, race, ethnicity, insurance, BMI at delivery, smoking status, parity,
chronic hypertension, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy), neonatal
characteristics (small/large for gestational age, birthweight, gestational
age at delivery), and pediatric diagnoses (asthma, diabetes, elevated blood
pressure) using chi-square tests or ANOVA, as appropriate. Logistic
regression modeling was performed to generate crude and adjusted
odds ratios (aOR) with 95% CI for maternal GDM treatment groups and
childhood obesity, adjusting for covariates p<0.05 in bivariate analyses.
Results: 393 mother-child pairs were included in the analysis. Childhood
obesity was present in 68 children (17.3%). Overall, no significant
associations between GDM treatment type and childhood obesity were
observed. Although insulin only treatment suggested a lower likelihood of
obesity compared to no medication use, this reduction was not statistically
significant (aOR 0.54, 95% CI 0.27-1.08). Hispanic maternal ethnicity
was a significant predictor of childhood obesity (aOR 2.28, 95% CI 1.31-
3.95), as was maternal BMI at delivery ≥40 (aOR 2.92, 95% CI 1.26-6.77).
No significant associations were found between childhood obesity and
other maternal attributes, neonatal characteristics, or pediatric diagnoses.
Conclusion: Maternal GDM treatment type was not significantly
associated with childhood obesity. These results provide evidence that the
method of GDM treatment does not adversely affect childhood obesity
outcomes.
S-070
Gestational Age-Dependent Changes in Amniotic Fluid Extracellular
Vesicles: Implications for Fetal Development. Ishara Atukorala,1 Sally
Beard,1 Ching-Seng Ang,2 Hamish Brown,2 Swetha Raghavan,1 Natasha
de Alwis,1 Bianca Fato,1 Natalie Binder,1 Natalie Hannan,1 Lisa Hui.1
1The University of Melbourne, Heidelberg, Australia; 2The University of
Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.
Introduction: Amniotic fluid (AF) supports the fetus throughout
gestation. In addition to many biomolecules, it is a rich source of
extracellular vesicles (EVs). Researchers are actively investigating the
role of AF-EVs in pregnancy. The aim of our study was to investigate how
the characteristics of AF-EVs change with gestational age.
Methods: We obtained AF samples from clinically indicated secondtrimester
amniocentesis and elective Caesarean section at term,
with patients’ written informed consent. All fetuses had normal
karyotypes, resulting in clinically healthy live infants. We isolated
EVs using a combination of differential centrifugation, filtration, and
ultracentrifugation and characterised them using nanoparticle tracking
analysis, cryo-electron microscopy, and Western blotting. Two-tailed
unpaired Student’s T-test was used to determine statistical significance.
EV proteins were digested with sequence-grade Trypsin, and the proteome
was analysed using label-free proteomics. Students’s T-test (FDR=0.05,
S0=0.1) on Perseus was used for quantitative proteomic data analysis.
Results: The biogenesis and the protein cargo of AF-EVs changed
according to the gestation. Full-term AF-EVs were smaller in diameter
than those of the second trimester. The EV concentration of AF remained
consistent throughout gestation. Cryo-electron microscopy imaging
revealed various EV morphologies, including those with multiple
compartments, multiple membranes, and corona. There was no difference
in the abundance of these morphologies between the groups. Proteomic
analysis revealed the gestation-dependent dynamics of the protein
signature. In the second trimester, AF-EV proteins represented fetal organs
such as the brain, liver, and pancreas. These proteins were associated
with biological pathways such as molecule assembly and metabolism,
indicating active growth of the fetoplacental unit. The proteome of the term
AF-EVs was similar to that of other biological fluids and was implicated
in responding to newborn challenges, such as digestion and immunity.
The enrichment of ESCRT pathway proteins in term AF indicated the
gestation-dependent bias in EV biogenesis pathways, supporting the
predominance of smaller EVs of endocytic origin at term.
Conclusion: This study illustrates the dynamic nature of fetal EV
biogenesis and shows the changing properties of AF-EVs with progressing
gestation. Additionally, the AF-EV proteome may offer insights into
real-time fetal developmental processes related to both physiology and
pathology.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 235A
Saturday Posters
S-071
Maternal Electronic-Cigarette Vaping Disturbs Microglia Profiles
and Induces Aberrant Neurobehaviors in Adult Offspring. Yong Li,
Rongjun Yu, Jiazichao Tu, Yanyan Zhang, Jia Tian, Wansu Yu, Lubo Zhang,
Daliao Xiao. Loma Linda University, Loma Linda, CA, United States.
Introduction: The rising prevalence of e-cigarette use, particularly
among adolescents and young pregnant women, raises significant public
health concerns. Some studies have suggested associations between
maternal e-cigarette exposure and adverse neurobehavioral development
in offspring. However, mechanistic studies addressing these associations
are currently lacking. We hypothesized that maternal e-cigarette vaping
disrupts normal microglia expression profiles in specific brain regions,
contributing to aberrant neurobehavioral phenotypes in adult offspring.
Methods: Pregnant SD rats were exposed to e-cigarette aerosol from
gestational day 4 (E4) to day 20 (E20). A battery of neurobehavioral
tests—including the Y-maze, elevated plus maze (EPM), novel object
recognition test (NORT), and object localization test (OLT)—was
conducted on 6-month-old offspring. Flow cytometry, Western blotting,
and immunofluorescence (IF) techniques were utilized to assess microglial
profiles in relevant brain regions, including the prefrontal cortex (PFC)
and hippocampus.
Results: : Compared to control groups, EPM results indicated that
prenatal e-cigarette-exposed male offspring spent significantly more time
exploring the open arms, whereas females exhibited reduced exploration,
suggesting sex-divergent effects: decreased anxiety and increased risktaking
in males, and heightened anxiety in females. Both NORT and OLT
demonstrated decreased exploration of novel objects and diminished
preference for object localization in both sexes, indicating potential
cognitive dysfunction. Importantly, flow cytometry, Western blotting,
and IF revealed disturbed microglia profiles in specific brain regions of
offspring exposed to maternal e-cigarette use.
Conclusion: Maternal E-cig exposure disturbs physiological microglia
profiles in brain subregions, which may contribute to the development of
aberrant emotional and cognitive phenotypes in adult offspring.
S-072
Deficiency of the Mitochondrial E3 Ubiquitin Ligase MUL1 in Mice
Results in Developmental Defects and Impaired Growth. Ximena Calle.
Universidad de Ohiggins, Rancagua, Chile.
Introduction: MUL1 is a mitochondrial outer membrane protein with
two N- and C-terminal domains. The C-terminal region has a Ring finger
domain responsible for its E3 ligase activity as ubiquitin or SUMOylation
interacting with proteins involved in mitochondrial dynamics. In addition,
MUL1 inhibits cell growth, induces apoptosis, and modulates the immune
system. Consequently, MUL1 leads to cardiovascular, inflammatory,
neurological, metabolic, and cancer pathologies. Therefore, it is essential
to show the effects on MUL1 heterozygous and knockout mice during
growth development and phenotypic changes that could affect survival
and the development of metabolic diseases, such as hypertension, diabetes,
and neurodevelopment. Studies have reported that perinatally acquired
epigenetic and microstructural alterations in metabolic and body weight
regulatory systems appear critical because they lead to a cardiometabolic
risk disposition throughout life. Consequently, the effects of partial or total
MUL1 deficiency on the whole organism are still unknown. Aim: To study
the effect of MUL1 in a heterozygous (HET) and knockout (KO) murine
model during development and phenotypic changes.
Methods: C57BL6N/ HET, WT, and KO MUL1 mice (CICUA approved
protocol, 20351-CYQ-UCH) were genotyped by conventional PCR at
21 days after birth and 12 weeks of age. The following parameters were
assessed: body weight, mouse size, glucose tolerance curve in HET
mice, and cardiac hypertrophy markers. In addition, a survival analysis
(Kaplan-Meyer) was performed. Finally, a structural histological analysis
of cardiomyocytes and muscle at 21 days, 12 weeks. Data were analysed
using non-parametric t-tests and one-way ANOVA.
Results: A significant decrease in body weight and size was observed in
KO mice (n=4) compared to HET mice (n=5) and wild-type WT mice
(n=5). Kaplan-Meyer analysis showed lower survival of C57BL6N KO
animals compared to HET and WT animals. The effective crossover
percentage between the different genotypes HET-HET is 64%, KO-KO
0%, and KO-HET 75%. Finally, no significant changes were observed in
the glucose tolerance curve in HET mice or in hypertrophy parameters.
Heart size normalised by mouse tibia length found no significant
differences between WT, HET, and KO groups. WG histological analysis
of heart and muscle showed differences in cell size in KO compared to
the other experimental groups.
Conclusion: Total MUL1 deficiency in mice influences body growth
and weight in KO mice and structural cell size. However, no significant
changes in these metabolic parameters were observed under basal
conditions measured in KO, HET mice compared to WT mice.
S-074
Pre-Gestational Acute Kidney Injury Impacts Progeny Growth. Jennifer
Lynne Anderson†, Odom Rose, Shaw Allee, Soranno E Danielle∗. Indiana
University, Indianapolis, IN, United States.
Introduction: Acute kidney injury (AKI) carries serious short- and
long-term sequelae. While AKI is more common in male and older
populations, recent studies have shown it may occur in up to 40% of ICU
patients 16-25 years old and 47% of ICU patients 26-35 years old. AKI
has many causes (dehydration, shock, sepsis, and pharmacologic or illicit
drug-induced injury, etc.) and women and children are not invulnerable
to its development. AKI is well known to cause vascular and endothelial
dysfunction that link it to chronic kidney disease, heart disease, and
cerebrovascular disease but the long-term effect of AKI on reproductive
health and future progeny (F1) is less clear. Here we assess the impact
of a pre-gestational ischemia-reperfusion (IR) AKI on progeny growth
in a mouse model.
Methods: Twenty-five seven-week-old C57Bl/6J female mice underwent
bilateral IR AKI (AKI, n=8), a sham IR procedure (sham, n=10), or no
procedure (control, n=7). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentrations
were assessed 24 hours post-procedure to confirm AKI. Animals were
allowed to recuperate for two weeks, after which transdermal glomerular
filtration rate (tGFR) was measured to confirm renal recovery, and animals
underwent breeding. Dams delivered naturally, and pups were weaned and
sexed at three weeks. Serial weight and length of the progeny were taken
weekly from birth through five weeks. A subset of the progeny underwent
tGFR at 4-6 weeks. Data are expressed as mean±SEM.
Results: Post-procedure BUN was higher in AKI dams compared to sham
and control dams, indicating acute kidney injury (120.9±15.64 mg/dL vs.
13.75±2.28 mg/dL and 27.33±7.02 mg/dL, respectively, both p<0.001).
Pre-breeding tGFR indicated normal renal function for all dams. Average
litter size was similar between groups (AKI: 6.3±1.9, sham: 6.3±2.4,
p>0.99 compared to AKI, control 7.3±1.9, p=0.57 compared to AKI). Birth
weight and length were lower in AKI F1 compared to sham and control
groups (weight 1.26±0.02g vs. 1.34±0.01g, p=0.003 and 1.37±0.02g,
p<0.001 respectively; length 3.74±0.04cm vs. 4.00±0.03cm, p<0.001
and 4.03±0.04cm, p<0.001 respectively). Interestingly, by five weeks
of age AKI F1 male weight appeared to surpass the sham and control
counterparts (20.05±0.018g vs. 18.64±0.37g, p=0.02 and 19.76±0.25g,
p=0.09, respectively). AKI F1 females at five weeks were heavier
than control animals but not sham-operated animals (18.14±0.64g vs.
16.5±0.29g, p=0.02 and 18.094±0.54g, p>0.99). Each group’s average
progeny tGFR at 4-6 weeks indicated normal renal function.
Conclusion: Pre-gestational AKI impacted initial birth weight and growth.
While this study followed progeny to 5 weeks of age, AKI F1 were smaller
initially, and then larger at 5 weeks of age. Infants small for gestational age
carry greater risk for long-term challenges, and further work is needed to
assess the long-term consequences of a pre-gestational IR AKI on renal,
cardiovascular, and cerebrovascular health of offspring.
236A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
S-075
Diesel Exhaust Particles (PNP) Induces Neural Tube Defects in
C57BL/6J Mouse Model through Downstream Kinase Signaling
Pathways of Oxidative Stress. Mohammad Sazzadul Islam†, E Albert
Reece∗, Peixin Yang∗. University of Maryland, Baltimore, Baltimore,
MD, United States.
Introduction: There is a growing concern about the hazardous effects
of air pollutants. The evidence from epidemiology studies over the last
decade implicates air pollution in adverse effects on birth outcomes.
P-Nitrophenol (PNP) is a major constituent of diesel exhaust particles
and a key metabolite of the widely used insecticide parathion. Our
ongoing collaborative study in a highly urbanized and industrialized
Northern Chinese City has demonstrated that PNP levels in maternal
sera were positively associated with NTDs whereas its sister compounds
3-methyl-4-nitrophenol (MNP) or 2-methyl-4-nitrophenol (4-NOC) were
not. Here, we reported the recapitulation of PNP induction of NTDs in
the C57BL/6J mouse model.
Methods: PNP is dissolved in 5% Pluronic F-127 solution, a nonionic
surfactant and non-toxic to cells or animals, and Intraperitoneal (IP)
Injected into female mice from E0.5 to E7.5 at doses of 0.625mg/kg to
12.5 mg/kg body weight (bw). Embryos were harvested at E9.5 to E11.5
for analysis of NTD incidence and at E8.75 for analysis of intracellular
signaling impacted by PNP.
Results: We found that mice receiving PNP at a dose of 1.25mg/kg bw
showed a high incidence of NTDs (19.2% in PNP, P<0.05, compared
to the vehicle control group with 0% NTDs). Further analysis indicated
PNP-induced caspase-3 dependent neuroepithelial cell apoptosis and the
increase of superoxide production in the developing neuroepithelium at
E8.5 and the activation of oxidative stress-responsive kinase: ASK1,
JNK1/2, and FoxO3a signaling. This is consistent with the findings from
published studies in adult tissues that PNP induces oxidative stress which
triggers caspase-dependent apoptosis. Furthermore, immunofluorescence
staining revealed a neuroepithelium-specific reduction of RNA
methylation (m6A) and RNA methyltransferase Mettl3 and Mettl14
expression.
Conclusion: The collective findings indicate that PNP triggers oxidative
stress kinase signaling and dysregulates RNA methylation, which leads
to NTD formation.
S-076
Transgenic Overexpression of miR-17 Restores Autophagy and
Ameliorates Neural Tube Defect Formation in Diabetic Pregnancy.
Md Mahadi Hassan, E. Albert Reece∗, Fuhua Xu∗, Peixin Yang∗. University
of Maryland Baltimore, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Neural tube defects (NTD) is the second most common
structural birth defects and maternal diabetes induces NTD. It is
imperative to characterize underlying molecular mechanisms and develop
effective interventional approaches. Autophagy is an intracellular process
functioning by degrading dysfunction protein and damaged cellular
organelles and plays an important role in regulation of cell survival
and proliferation. In this study, we sought to investigate the role of a
microRNA-17 (miR-17) in regulation of autophagy in the developing
neuroepithelium of mouse embryos exposed to maternal diabetes mellitus.
Methods: Neural tube defects (NTDs) were assessed at embryonic
day 10.5 (E10.5) using microscopy and hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)
staining. Biochemical analyses, including Western blotting and
immunofluorescence were conducted at embryonic day 8.75 (E8.75).
Apoptotic cells in the neuroepithelium were evaluated using the TUNEL
assay.
Results: We generated a neural stem cell marker nestin promoter-driven
miR-17 transgenic (Tg) mouse line to determine if restoring miR-17
expression in the developing neuroepithelium ameliorates NTD in diabetic
pregnancy. Maternal diabetes significantly reduced miR-17 expression. We
found the levels of LC3-II (microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain
3), an autophagy marker, was inhibited by maternal diabetes in embryonic
day 8.75 (E8.75) embryos, a critical time for neurulation, but was restored
by miR-17 Tg expression. Maternal diabetes decreased autophagy-related
(Atg) gene expression: ULK1 (Atg1 in yeast), Atg3, Atg5, Beclin1 (Atg6),
and Ambra1, and miR-17 Tg rescued the expression of these genes.
Maternal diabetes increased the expression of two autophagy negative
regulators, p62 and Dap, and miR-17 Tg reversed the increase of these
two genes. Finally, miR-17 Tg expression specifically in the developing
neuroepithelium significantly reduced NTD incidences in E10.5 embryos.
Moreover, maternal diabetes upregulates the expression of seven ER
chaperone genes, a change that is reversed by miR-17 overexpression.
Conclusion: Taken together, this study supports the hypothesis that miR-
17 reduction contributes to autophagy impairment induced by maternal
diabetes. miR-17 Tg expression restores autophagy by recusing Atg gene
expression and inhibiting autophagy negative regulators.
S-077
A Novel Murine Model of Small for Gestational Age Driven by Double-
Stranded RNA Receptors and Its Relevance to Human Pregnancy
Complications. Kenichiro Motomura,1,2 Hiromichi Yamamoto†,3,4
Hideaki Morita,1,2 Hironori Takahashi,4 Seiji Wada,2 Hirohisa Saito,1
Kenji Matsumoto.1 1National Research Institute for Child Health and
Development, Tokyo, Japan; 2National Center for Child Health and
Development, Tokyo, Japan; 3National Research Institute for Child Health
and Development, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan; 4Jichi Medical University,
Tochigi, Japan.
Introduction: Small for gestational age (SGA) is a serious obstetrical
condition with long-term adverse effects on neonates. Although SGA has
a multifactorial etiology, maternal, fetal, and placental inflammation can
contribute to this condition in utero. Our previous work demonstrated
that human villous trophoblasts express double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)
receptors, which induce interferon and inflammatory cytokine/chemokine
production and apoptosis in vitro. Here, we investigate whether activating
these receptors induces inflammatory tissue injury, leading to adverse
pregnancy outcomes in mice. Moreover, the model’s clinical relevance was
evaluated using publicly available human SGA placental transcriptome
data.
Methods: Pregnant C57BL/6 (wild-type) or Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3)
deficient mice (Tlr3-/-) were intravenously injected with synthetic dsRNA
(poly(I:C), 12.5 μg per mouse) at 15.5 days post coitum (dpc). Neonatal
weights were monitored until 7 weeks of age. In a separate cohort, fetal and
placental weights were measured at 16.5 and 18.5 dpc. Microarray analysis
was performed to investigate placental gene expression. Additionally, the
human SGA placental transcriptome dataset (GSE 75010) was reanalyzed
to compare the placental gene expression profiles between this model
and human SGA.
Results: Neonates from poly(I:C)-injected wild-type dams had lower
body weights compared to vehicle-treated controls. Fetuses and placentas
from poly(I:C)-injected wild-type dams were also lighter than those from
vehicle-treated controls, an effect absent in Tlr3-/- dams. Differentially
expressed genes (DEGs) in 16.5 dpc placentas were enriched in interferon
and inflammatory signaling pathways. At 18.5 dpc, DEGs were associated
with various placental functions, including serotonin receptor signaling,
ion channel transport, and galactose metabolism. A subset of human SGA
placentas exhibited similar gene expression patterns to these key DEGs
in the 16.5 dpc mouse placental transcriptome.
Conclusion: These findings suggest that dsRNA receptor-mediated
innate immune responses contribute to a subset of human SGA. This
murine model may serve as a valuable tool for studying the underlying
mechanisms of this subset of SGA and may provide information about
potential therapeutic interventions.
S-078
Characterizing the Natural History of Fetal Growth Restriction,
Diagnosed Before 22 Weeks Gestational Age, Up to 3 Years of Age.
Rimsha A Hussaini†,1 Diya Yang†,1 Katie Fioritto,2 Giancarlo Mari∗.2 1Case
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, United States; 2University
Hospitals, Cleveland, OH, United States.
Introduction: Fetal Growth Restriction (FGR) diagnosed before 22
weeks of pregnancy poses significant risks to both neonatal outcomes and
long-term development, but there is limited research available on these
effects. Furthermore, the connection between different severities of FGR
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 237A
Saturday Posters
and outcomes for newborns as well as ongoing health and growth issues in
childhood needs deeper exploration. This study aims to address these gaps
by examining FGR patterns and their implications across early childhood.
Methods: FGR cases diagnosed before 22 weeks were grouped into three
categories by severity based on AC and EFW percentiles at diagnosis:
Group A (n = 59): EFW or AC less than 3rd percentile (most severe)
Group B (n = 29): EFW or AC greater than or equal to 3rd and less than
5th percentileGroup C (n = 71): EFW or AC greater than or equal to 5th
and less than 10th percentile (least severe)
Each group was further delineated based on the trajectory during
advancing gestation: FGR resolves (EFW or AC greater than 10th
percentile), EFW or AC remain between greater than or equal to 3rd and
less than 10th percentile, or FGR worsens (EFW or AC falls to less than
3rd percentile). Chi-squared tests and Fisher’s exact tests were used to
assess the significance of differences between groups in terms of perinatal
morbidity and mortality, maternal pathologies, fetal anomalies, and poor
weight gain/failure to thrive in the first three years of age, with p less than
0.05 indicating significance.
Results: Gestational age at diagnosis was similar across groups (Group
A: 19.4 weeks, Group B: 19.7 weeks, Group C: 19.7 weeks). FGR in
Groups A and B were significantly less likely to resolve than in Group C
(p = 0.038). No other significant differences were found in the gestational
trajectory of Groups A-C. Maternal gestational pathologies and fetal
anomalies showed no significant differences between groups. Babies in
Group A were more likely to experience intrauterine fetal demise/neonatal
death than those in Groups B and C (p less than 0.00001), with Group B
also having more adverse outcomes than Group C (p less than 0.00001).
No significant differences were seen in childhood pathologies or weight
percentiles. Of FGR cases diagnosed before 22 weeks, 74% were below
the 50th weight percentile up to the last childhood follow-up visit (within
first three years of age).
Conclusion: This study highlights the varying outcomes based on the
severity and progression of FGR. FGR characterized by an EFW and/or
AC below the 3rd percentile before 22 weeks of gestation is associated
with an increased risk of perinatal mortality. This finding is novel and
important for informing patient counseling and targeting follow-up
ultrasounds. Future studies should involve a larger sample size and divide
FGR cases into subgroups for more detailed analysis.
S-079
Maternal First Trimester SIMPLE Nutritional Score and Intrauterine
Fetal Growth Trajectory: A Prospective Multicenter Italian Study
(SIMPLE Study). Francesca Parisi,1,2 Chiara Mandò∗,2 Chiara Lubrano,1,2
Elisabetta Marelli,3 Giovanna Esposito,2 Valeria Savasi,3 Andrea Ciavattini,4
Greco Pantaleo,5 Felice Petraglia,6 Arsenio Spinillo,7 Giampiero
Capobianco,8 Massimo Piergiuseppe Franchi,9 Caterina Neri,10 Irene
Cetin,1,2 Simple Study Group. 1Fondazione IRCCS Ca’ Granda Ospedale
Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy; 2Univ of Milan, Milan, Italy; 3Buzzi
Children Hospital ASST FBF Sacco, Univ of Milan, Milan, Italy; 4Univ
of Marche, Ancona, Italy; 5S. Anna University Hospital, Univ of Ferrara,
Ferrara, Italy; 6Careggi University Hospital, Univ of Florence, Florence,
Italy; 7IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Univ of Pavia, Pavia, Italy; 8Univ
of Sassari, Sassari, Italy; 9AOUI Verona, Univ of Verona, Verona, Italy;
10Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS, Rome,
Italy.
Introduction: Unhealthy dietary patterns increase the risk of adverse
pregnancy outcomes, with short- and long-term health effects. This
study aimed to evaluate the associations between first trimester maternal
nutrition and lifestyle and fetal growth trajectories.
Methods: Healthy women with singleton pregnancies were enrolled
(11+0 - 13+6 weeks) in a multicenter Italian prospective observational
cohort between Jan 19 - Sept 23. The SIMPLE score (SS, 0-10) assessed
the adherence to a healthy diet and lifestyle at enrollment. Participants
were divided in unhealthy (SS<6) and healthy (SS≥6) groups. Abdominal
circumference (AC) and estimated fetal weight (EFW) were calculated
during 2nd - 3rd trimester ultrasounds. Multi-adjusted linear mixed
models were performed to investigate the associations between the SS
and longitudinal fetal growth measurements, including adjustment for
pregestational BMI and gestational weight gain.
Results: 938 women were enrolled, including 109 (11.6%) in the unhealthy
group. The unhealthy group was associated with a significantly slower
EFW gain from the second to the third trimester (β=-0.028, p=0.015). This
effect was more pronounced among male fetuses, showing decreased EFW
(β=-0.053, p=0.002) and AC (β=-0.053, p=0.032) trajectories between the
second and third trimesters. The analysis of individual SS components
showed that first trimester hemoglobin concentrations >110 g/L were
significantly associated with reduced EFW gain during pregnancy (average
absolute difference of 0.82 g, p=0.001).
Conclusion: Suboptimal nutritional adherence was associated with a
slower EFW gain and AC trajectory during pregnancy, particularly among
male pregnancies. These results suggest that the SS could serve as an
early screening tool to identify women at risk of suboptimal fetal growth
due to poor nutrition, emphasizing the need for early targeted nutritional
interventions to optimize pregnancy outcomes.
S-080
Associations of a Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substance Mixture
with Perinatal Outcomes Among Participants from the Study of
Environment, Lifestyle, and Fibroids. Samantha Schildroth†,1 Birgit
Claus Henn,1 Amelia K Wesselink,1 Victoria Fruh,1 Baird D Donna,2 Ganesa
Wegienka,3 Lauren A Wise∗.1 1Boston University, Boston, MA, United
States; 2National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, Durham,
NC, United States; 3Henry Ford Health, Detroit, MI, United States.
Introduction: Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are endocrinedisrupting
chemicals that can dysregulate reproductive hormones that
support healthy pregnancy. Exposure to PFAS has been associated with
adverse perinatal outcomes, but less is known about the cumulative effects
of PFAS mixtures, or the role of psychosocial factors as effect measure
modifiers of PFAS perinatal toxicity, particularly among Black individuals.
Methods: We leveraged prospective data from the Study of Environment,
Lifestyle, and Fibroids, a cohort of 1,693 reproductive-aged Black
participants recruited in 2010-2012, to investigate associations between
a PFAS mixture and perinatal outcomes reported by 321 participants with
live births during ~60 months of follow-up. We quantified concentrations
of six PFAS in plasma samples collected at baseline using online solidphase
extraction-liquid chromatography-isotope dilution tandem mass
spectrometry. Participants reported social support (via questionnaire) and
perceived stress (on the Perceived Stress Scale-4) at baseline. We used
Bayesian Kernel Machine Regression (BKMR) to estimate associations
of the PFAS mixture and assess modification of the mixture by social
support and perceived stress by including these variables in the BKMR
kernel function, adjusting for hypothesized confounders. We estimated
mean differences (β) in birthweight (grams) and gestational age at birth
(weeks), with 95% credible intervals (CrIs).
Results: The overall PFAS mixture was not materially associated with
perinatal outcomes: the 75th percentile of the mixture (versus the 50th
percentile), for example, was not associated with birthweight (β=-8.8; 95%
CrI=-95.3, 77.8) or gestational age (β=-0.1; 95% CrI=-0.2, 0.1). Several
individual PFAS were weakly associated with perinatal outcomes in
BKMR univariate exposure response profiles, but directions of association
varied by PFAS. There was no evidence of effect measure modification
by social support or perceived stress.
Conclusion: The PFAS mixture was not associated with perinatal
outcomes, and associations were not modified by social support or
perceived stress.
238A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
S-081
Identification of Stiffness Zones under Physiological and Pathological
Stretch in Human Umbilical Arteries from Fetal Growth Restricted
Pregnancies. Patricio Morales-Rosales†,1 Arenas A German†,2 Gonzalez
Jose Miguel†,3 Utrera Andres†,3 Garcia-Herrera Claudio∗,3 Krause J
Bernardo∗.1 1Universidad de O’Higgins, Rancagua, Chile; 2University
of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Denver, CO, United States;
3Universidad de Santiago de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
Introduction: Young’s modulus (YM) describes the relationship
between stress (σ) and stretch (λ) in a material, reflecting its stiffness.
In hyperelastic materials, such as umbilical arteries (UA), nonlinear
behavior is found. Studies on human arteries show little consistency for
YM without establishing a relationship between this variable parameter
and vascular structure in vivo. Here we propose three potential zones of
stiffness within stress-strain curves (SSC) from UA and compared their
corresponding YM in samples from fetal growth restriction (FGR) and
control pregnancies.
Methods: Stretching and active contractility of blood vessels, YM was
determined for three zones of mechanical behavior in SSC. Uniaxial
stretching data from umbilical arteries were analyzed by finite element
simulation and the Demiray constitutive model to generate characteristic
SSC in control (n = 5) and FGR UA (n = 5). Active force in stretching
curves were used to define zones of under (US) normal (NS) and high
stretching (HS), and YM for each zone was derived.
Results: In reference data, average YM values for each zone was 23.60 ±
19.61 KPa in zone 1 (US), 102.05 ± 32.32 KPa in zone 2 (NS), and 200.95
± 31.80 KPa in zone 3 (HS), at 1.2 ± 0.16 λ (US), 1.65 ± 0.13 λ (NS), and
1.95 ± 0.07 λ (HS), respectively. After identifying regions of mechanical
interest, SSC were analyzed for control and FGR UA subjected to uniaxial
tensions. No significant differences in YM were observed at US, while
significant differences (p<0.001) were found in NS [72.61 (control) vs
54.30 KPa (FGR)], and HS zones [156.80 (control) vs 109.30 KPa (FGR)].
Conclusion: The differences in Young’s modulus suggest that
cardiovascular adaptations in fetal growth restriction may induce
increased compliance in the umbilical artery in stretching conditions
occurring in vivo. Furthermore, the characterization of three distinct zones
of mechanical behavior provides valuable information for evaluating
in vitro physiological and pathological conditions and improving the
understanding of the stress required to induce specific deformations in
arterial tissues. Acknowledgments: FONDECYT 1220421 and Programa
de Becas de Apoyo a la Investigación de Postgrado (REX 1153-2023)
UOH.
S-082
MitoTempo Improves Mitochondrial Respiration and Characteristics
of Gestational Diabetes in a Novel Rat Model of Diabetes during
Pregnancy. Jean C Vel. University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson,
MS, United States.
Introduction: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), impacts 10% of
pregnancies and refers to glucose intolerance, insulin sensitivity and
beta islet cell dysfunction and is a risk factor for hypertensive disorders
of pregnancy. We have shown DM CD4+ T cells cause diabetes via mt
dysfunction/ROS leading to HTN during pregnancy in a novel rat model
of GDM. Studies suggest that metformin inhibits mitochondrial complex
I and cellular respiration. Therefore, we sought to compare the effects of
metformin and a mitochondrial supplement for the treatment of GDM.
Methods: One million splenic CD4+Tcells from female streptozotocin
(STZ)-induced diabetic Dahl Salt Sensitive (SS) rats and control
nondiabetic female Dahl SS rats were injected on gestational day (GD)
12 into pregnant Sprague Dawley (SD) rats to create the DM-CD4+ T
cells and nondiabetic controls (SS-CD4+ T cells), respectively. On GD
13, a separate group of DM rats were treated with Metformin (DM CD4+
T cells+ Met; 300 mg/kg/day) or Mito-Tempo (1 mg/kg/d; GDM+Mito).
On GD 19, glucose and blood pressure were measured, and renal and
placental mt function were assessed. A one-way ANOVA was used for
statistical analysis.
Results: MAP increased in DM-CD4+ T cell rats (112±3, n=8, p<0.05)
and SS-CD4+ T cell rats (110±4, n=8, p<0.05) compared to pregnant NPSD
controls (97±3 mmHg, n=6) and was lowered with either treatment
[DM+Mito (97±1 mmHg, n=13); DM+Met (98±1 mmHg, n=10)].
Circulating blood glucose was elevated with DM-CD4+ T cells (136 ± 9
mg/dl, p<0.05), but was reduced with metformin (79±2 mg/dl, p<0.05) or
MitoTempo (87±2 mg/dl). Placental complex I respiration was decreased
in recipients of DM-CD4T cells (3 ± 0.4 pmol O2/s/mg) and DM+Met
(5±2 pmol O2/s/mg) compared to NP-SD (17±2 pmol O2/s/mg), but was
improved with treatment with MitoTempo (12±3 pmol O2/s/mg).
Conclusion: These data indicate that diabetic CD4+ T cells play a role
the disease process, which can be improved with MitoTempo treatment.
Furthermore, Metformin decreases mitochondrial complex I activity which
is avoided with mitotempo, which could be a potential new therapeutic
for GDM.
S-083
Maternal Outcomes Following Prenatal Repair of Neural Tube
Defects: A Meta-Analysis of Surgical Outcomes. Ehsan Rojhani,1 Nikan
Zargarzadeh†,1 Enaja Sambatur†,1 May Abiad†,1 Ali Javinani†,1 Kjersti
Aagaard∗,2 Alireza Shamshirsaz∗.1 1Boston Children’s Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA, United States; 2HCA Healthcare Gulf Coast
Division, Houston, TX, United States.
Introduction: Prenatal surgical interventions for neural tube defects have
been shown to improve fetal outcomes. Still, they are associated with
previously poorly quantified maternal risk, which is inherently dependent
on the surgical approach used. We hypothesized that a meta-analysis
would enable objective quantitation of maternal risk and safety, stratified
by antenatal neural tube defect repair techniques employed.
Methods: We conducted a meta-analysis by searching PubMed, Scopus,
Embase, and Web of Science databases. We included all studies that
performed prenatal intrauterine neural tube defect repair, regardless of the
surgical technique. Our primary safety measure outcomes were maternal
mortality and severe maternal morbidity (inclusive of uterine rupture or
dehiscence, blood transfusion, and pulmonary edema). A total of 26 studies
published between 5/18/2009 and 10/16/2023 were selected, prioritizing
larger sample sizes and relevant outcomes when populations overlapped.
The meta-analysis was conducted using R software (version 4.0.5).
Results: Our meta-analysis included a total of 1,508 patients. No maternal
mortality was reported in the included studies (0/995). Some studies
provided comprehensive data for all complications, while others only
reported specific outcomes, leading to variation in case denominators.
Uterine rupture or dehiscence was observed in 0% of cases (0/157)
undergoing fetoscopic surgery, 7.6% of cases (53/699) undergoing open
surgery, and 3.1% of cases (6/192) undergoing mini-hysterotomy. Modeladjusted
pooled proportions showed that blood transfusion was required
in 0.03 (95% CI: 0.01-0.05) of 971 cases. Pulmonary edema was observed
in 0.03 (95% CI: 0.02-0.06) of 872 cases notably with removing an outlier
study the pooled proportion remained at 0.03 (95% CI: 0.02-0.05).
Conclusion: In conclusion, maternal mortality and severe morbidities
are minimal indicating prenatal repair of neural tube defects is safe for
pregnant individuals.
S-084
Targeting N6-Methyladenosine RNA Demethylase Fat Mass and
Obesity-Associated Protein in Human Uterine Sarcoma Cells. Qiwei
Yang, Ayman Al-Hendy. University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Uterine sarcomas (US) represent a rare category of
malignant soft tissue tumors, accounting for 3%-9% of malignant uterine
neoplasm. The incidence of these heterogeneous groups of tumors was
3 to 7 cases per 100,000 women annually in the United States. N6-
methyladenosine (m6A) is an RNA modification that can be removed by
demethylases fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) and AlkB
homolog 5 (ALKBH5)], which regulate gene expression and cellular
processes. This study aims to determine the mechanism and functional
role of m6A erasers in US pathogenesis.
Methods: We performed immunoblot analysis to compare the FTO and
ALKBH5 protein levels between US (MES-SA) and myometrial cell line
(UTSM). Cell viability was performed using trypan blue excluding assay
in the presence or absence of DAC51 (FTO inhibitor, 1-10 μM dose range,
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 239A
Saturday Posters
2 days). Flow cytometry was performed to determine the change in the
cell cycle phase. High throughput RNA-seq was performed to investigate
the molecular mechanism underlying FTO inhibition in US cells (control
group: DMSO; treated group: 5 μM DAC51; treatment time: 48h; n=4
for each group). The package DESeq2 was used to identify differentially
expressed genes (DEGs) between treatment and control groups. The DEGs
were validated by qPCR. The cutoff value is 1.5-fold with an FDA<0.05.
The enrichment of pathway analysis was performed using the Human
Molecular Signature database.
Results: We showed that the levels of m6A demethylases, including
FTO and ALKBH5, were aberrantly upregulated in US cells compared
to normal myometrial cells. Targeted inhibition of FTO with its specific
inhibitor DAC51 significantly decreased patient-derived MES-SA cell
growth dose-dependently and induced cell cycle arrest at the G1 phase.
Concomitantly, DAC51 treatment significantly downregulated the RNA
levels of CDK1 and CDK2 and increased the expression of CDKN1A
(p<0.001), respectively. Transcriptome analysis revealed that treatment
of MES-SA cells with 5 μM DAC51 for 48 h induced 3913 DEGs. To
determine if the DEGs are implicated in inhibiting cell proliferation,
gene set enrichment analysis was performed and demonstrated that G2M
checkpoint, MYC_targets, E2F targets, and mitotic spindle signaling were
significantly enriched in DAC51 vs. control groups (FDR<0.05). RNAseq
analysis demonstrated that DAC51 treatment significantly decreased
the expression of TIMP1-3, which are the key regulators of MMPs that
degrade the ECM and shed cell surface molecules. Notably, DAC51
treatment also reduced the expression levels of several key members (GLI1
and GL13) in the activated Hedgehog pathway in US cancer.
Conclusion: Our study revealed that the m6A demethylases are involved
in US pathogenesis. Therefore, targeting vulnerable epitranscriptome may
provide an additional regulatory layer for a promising and novel strategy
for treating patients with US cancer.
S-085
Simulated Lunar Microgravity Exerts Cell Line-Specific Growth
Inhibition and Transcriptomic Effects on Ovarian Cancer Cells. Yusaku
Kumagai,1,2 Chellsea H.L. IP,1 Subramanian Arjunan,1 Binny P. Sesurajan,1
Mchelle Seah,1 Sean W.D. Carter,1 Sebastian E. Illanes,1,3 Mahesh A.
Choolani,1 Matthew W. Kemp.1,2,4 1National University of Singapore,
Singapore, Singapore; 2Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan; 3Universidad
de los Andes, Santiago, Chile; 4University of Western Australia, Perth,
Australia.
Introduction: Chemotherapy resistance in ovarian cancer (OVCA) is
a primary cause of treatment failure. Simulated microgravity (sμG) is
known to exert a host of growth reduction and transcriptomic effects
on whole organisms and individual cell cultures. We aimed to use sμG
as a tool to assess its impact on cell growth in a set of commonly used
OVCA cell lines.
Methods: OVCAR10, TOV112D, PEO1, and SKOV3 cells were cultured
under standard 1.0G conditions. Cells were passaged and cultured under
sμG (0.16G) using a Random Positioning Machine (Yuri Microgravity).
Separate control lines accounting for alterations in gas exchange and sμG
were maintained in parallel for 72h. Cells were sampled before being
passaged and cultured for another 72h of growth at 1.0G. Replicates (n=3
/ cell line) cultured under sμG and post-sμG conditions were used for vital
counts using trypan blue, staining images of proliferative and apoptotic
markers, cell cycle and apoptosis analysis, and RNA transcriptomic
analyses using next generation sequencing (3’ directional, 30 million
reads).
Results: sμG significantly reduced cell proliferation in OVCAR10, PEO1,
and SKOV3 (all p<0.001), but TOV112D exhibited continued proliferation
despite lack of adhesion. sμG significantly reduced the number of Ki-67
positive cells and increased the number of Annexin V positive cells in all
four cell lines (all p<0.05). sμG OVCAR10, TOV112D, and PEO1 cells
had statistically significant (p<0.05) increases in necrotic cells, suggesting
apoptotic activation. RNA-seq data showed that under sμG, a total of
110, 199, 164, and 296 genes were significantly upregulated, while 77,
263, 181, and 226 genes were significantly downregulated (at least 2-fold
change, FDR < 0.05) for OVCAR10, PEO1, TOV112D, and SKOV3
respectively, compared to 1.0G culture conditions. Key markers for cell
cycle regulation and cellular stress responses (CDKN1A, CCNA1, SFN)
as well as pro-apoptotic genes (BBC3 and PMAIP1) were upregulated
in OVCAs exposed to sμG. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed
that sμG affected pathways associated with cell cycle regulation, DNA
replication, autophagy, spliceosomal function, and lysosomal function,
although responses varied among cell lines. Post-sμG, cell proliferation
and functional changes in OVCA cells returned to baseline levels.
Conclusion: sμG induced cell-line specific reductions in proliferation
and altered cell cycle regulation. The transient nature of these changes
suggested a direct sμG effect. Further exploration of these changes may
identify novel targets to disrupt growth in otherwise chemotherapyresistant
OVCA cells.
S-086
PFOS Impairs Insulin Secretion and Glucose Tolerance during
Pregnancy via Reduced cAMP Production in Pancreatic β-Cells. Alissa
Hofmann†, Pankaj Yadav†, Ruolin Song†, Jay Mishra∗, Sathish Kumar∗.
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, United States.
Introduction: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is characterized
by hyperglycemia and insufficient insulin secretion, but the underlying
causes remain unclear. This study investigated the role of perfluorooctane
sulfonic acid (PFOS), an environmental pollutant, in the development of
GDM. Hypothesis: PFOS exposure contributes to GDM by impairing
mitochondrial function in pancreatic β-cells, leading to decreased ATP
and cAMP production and reduced insulin secretion.
Methods: Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were administered PFOS
(50 μg/mL; n=7) through drinking water from gestational day (GD) 4
until term (GD20). Controls (n=7) received standard deionized water
with no detectable PFOS. Glucose tolerance and glucose-stimulated
insulin secretion (GSIS) were assessed. Gene expression, mitochondrial
complexes, and cAMP levels were measured. The protective role of
MitoQ was evaluated.
Results: PFOS did not significantly alter maternal weight gain, food
intake, or water intake; however, it reduced fasting insulin levels compared
to controls without significant differences in fasting blood glucose levels.
Glucose tolerance tests in PFOS-exposed dams revealed significantly
elevated serum glucose levels (Δ AUC 17869 ± 1093 in PFOS vs 13740
± 1191 in controls). This was accompanied by a proportional decrease
in insulin levels (Δ AUC 39.86 ± 8.34 in PFOS vs 82.03 ± 14.68 in
controls), suggesting impaired insulin secretion in response to the glucose
challenge. Pancreatic islet numbers and β-cell area were unaffected by
PFOS exposure. To determine whether the decreased insulin secretion of
PFOS dams was an islet cell-autonomous effect, we studied GSIS in static
incubation in cultured islets. Compared with controls, PFOS-exposed
islets exhibited decreased glucose-stimulated insulin secretion at both
2.8 and 16.7 mM glucose. PFOS exposure did not alter insulin mRNA
or insulin protein expression in INS-1 cells, indicating that the decreased
insulin secretion was not due to reduced insulin gene transcription
or translation. However, PFOS exposure significantly decreased the
expression of mitochondrial complexes II, associated with a reduction in
cellular ATP content. Furthermore, PFOS exposure decreased intracellular
cAMP levels, a key signaling molecule that promotes insulin secretion.
Pretreatment of INS-1 cells with the mitochondrial-targeted antioxidant
MitoQ effectively restored ATP production and intracellular cAMP levels
and GSIS in PFOS-exposed β-cells.
Conclusion: PFOS exposure during pregnancy disrupts mitochondrial
function in pancreatic β-cells, leading to decreased cAMP levels and
impaired insulin secretion, providing a molecular mechanism linking
maternal PFOS exposure and GDM.
240A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
S-087
Associations of Maternal Smoking with Vaginal Microbiome Dynamics
and Pregnancy Outcomes. Ann T Phan†,1 Aya Brown Kav,1 William
F Kindschuch,1 Emily Watters,1 Julia Urban,1 Heekuk Park,1 George R
Saade,2 William A Grobman,3 Chemen M Neal,4 Robert M Silver,5 Ronald
J Wapner,1 Anne-Catrin Uhlemann,1 Tal Korem∗.1 1Columbia University,
New York, NY, United States; 2Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk,
VA, United States; 3The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, United
States; 4Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN, United States; 5University
of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, United States.
Introduction: Cigarette smoking remains the largest contributor to
morbidity and mortality in most parts of the world. Maternal smoking
during pregnancy has been associated with multiple adverse outcomes.
Further, the effects of smoking vary over gestation, with some outcomes,
such as chorioamnionitis, associated primarily with smoking early in
pregnancy. Both smoking and adverse pregnancy outcomes have been
independently associated with the vaginal microbiome, but less is
known about the associations of the microbiome and smoking before and
during pregnancy. We hypothesized that maternal smoking is associated
with specific temporal changes in the vaginal microbiome, and that
characterizing these changes can offer insight into the relationship between
smoking and adverse pregnancy outcomes.
Methods: We characterized the vaginal microbiome for a subset of the
Nulliparous Pregnancy Outcomes Study: Monitoring Mothers-to-be
(nuMoM2b) cohort (n=123) via 16s amplicon sequencing of samples
collected at three visits (6-14, 16-22, and 22-30 weeks’ gestation).
Smoking and sociodemographic characteristics (race, ethnicity, income,
maternal age) were self-reported during these visits. Compositional tensor
factorization (CTF) was used for dimensionality reduction, combined
with linear mixed effects models to quantify the associations of smoking,
demographic variables and temporal variations in the vaginal microbiome
throughout pregnancy.
Results: 29 of 123 individuals reported smoking before pregnancy, and 9
during the first trimester. We demonstrated differences in the beta diversity
of the vaginal microbiome between those who did and did not smoke in
the first trimester (p=0.016) and that smoking in early pregnancy was
associated with different temporal profiles of the vaginal microbiome
(p=0.022). Similarly, smoking in the 3 months prior to pregnancy was
associated with differences in vaginal microbiome composition (p=0.010).
The association between pre-pregnancy smoking and two adverse
pregnancy outcomes, spontaneous preterm birth (interaction p=0.049)
and chorioamnionitis (interaction p=0.041) were significantly related to
the beta diversity of the vaginal microbiome.
Conclusion: Maternal smoking, particularly before and in early pregnancy,
is associated with significant alterations in the vaginal microbiome. Our
analysis allows for a temporal understanding of how smoking-induced
microbiome disruptions may contribute to adverse pregnancy outcomes.
S-088
Serological Evidence of Mycoplasma Genitalium Mono- and Co-
Infections on Reproductive Success. Chakraborti Yajnaseni†,1 Hinkle
Stefanie,1 Skov Jensen Jorgen,2 Haggerty Catherine,3 Darville Toni,4
Mumford Sunni,1 Schisterman Enrique,1 Silver Robert,5 Brandie DePaoli
Taylor∗.6 1University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States;
2Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen, Denmark; 3University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, PA, United States; 4University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, United States; 5University of Utah, Salt Lake City,
UT, United States; 6Advocate Aurora Research Institute, Milwaukee, WI,
United States.
Introduction: Mycoplasma genitalium (MG) is a mostly asymptomatic
sexually transmitted infection (STI) associated with pelvic inflammatory
disease. However, the impact of prior MG exposure on reproductive
success remains underexplored and studies rarely disentangle MG monoexposure
from MG co-exposure with other STIs. Preconception cohorts
could improve understanding of MG seropositivity on reproductive health.
Methods: We used data (n=1228) from the Effect of Aspirin in Gestation
and Reproduction (EAGeR) study, a preconception prospective cohort
of individuals with a history of 1-2 pregnancy losses. MG seropositivity
was determined using Western blot to identify IgG for anti-Mg075F1 at
baseline. Weighted regression models determined the association between
MG seropositivity and time-to β-hCG-detected pregnancy, pregnancy
loss, and live birth, using a comparison group seronegative for Chlamydia
trachomatis (CT), Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Trichomonas vaginalis.
MG mono seropositivity and co-seropositivity with CT was examined
(i.e. mono and co-infections). Models were adjusted for demographic,
behavioral, and reproductive history variables.
Results: Among MG seropositive individuals (n=210, 17.1%), 66.7%
were MG seropositive only and 28% were also CT seropositive. There
were no associations between MG and pregnancy loss (RRadj: 1.00, 95%
CI: 0.89, 1.12) or live birth (RRadj: 0.98, 95% CI: 0.84, 1.16). Results
were similar for MG mono-infection. CT co-infection was not associated
with pregnancy loss (RRadj: 1.14, 95% CI: 0.94, 1.38), but marginally
reduced live births (RRadj: 0.64, 95% CI: 0.38, 1.06). MG seropositivity
resulted in longer time to pregnancy (fecundability odds ratio - FORadj:
0.89, 95% CI: 0.72, 1.10) with similar results for CT co-infection (FORadj:
0.64, 95% CI: 0.41, 1.01).
Conclusion: MG is an emerging STI with known antibiotic resistance,
but there is limited prospective data linking MG to adverse reproductive
outcomes. Although the results may lack precision, this study provides
important data on preconception MG seroprevalence, co-infection
dynamics, and potential risk of longer time to pregnancy and reduced
live births. However, further studies are needed.
S-089
Achieving Glycemic Targets in Pregnancy and Postpartum Depressive
Symptoms Among Individuals with Pregestational Diabetes. Jenna
Celeste Meiman†, Abigail Steinbrunner†, Miranda Kiefer∗, Fareed Naleef∗,
Joshua Joseph∗, Mark Landon∗, Steven Gabbe∗, William Grobman∗, Kartik
Venkatesh∗. The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, United States.
Introduction: To determine whether achieving glycemic targets using
hemoglobin A1c (A1c) in pregnancy are associated with the risk of
postpartum depressive symptoms among individuals with pregestational
diabetes.
Methods: A retrospective analysis of pregnant individuals with type 1 and
2 diabetes enrolled in an integrated prenatal and diabetes care program
at a tertiary care center from 2012-2016. The exposure was glycemic
targets per current guidelines of an A1c <6.5% in either early (<20 weeks’
gestation) or late pregnancy (≥20 weeks’ gestation). Secondarily, we
evaluated a lower A1c threshold of <6.0% as well as whether A1c either
decreased or remained <6.5% versus A1c increased or remained >6.5%
across pregnancy. The outcome was postpartum depressive symptoms,
as indicated by an Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) score
>10, a cutoff which is commonly used in prenatal care for depression
screening. Modified Poisson regression was used and adjusted for baseline
age, White Class, type 1 versus 2 diabetes, hemoglobin, insurance, and
the Social Vulnerability Index.
Results: Among 222 pregnant individuals with pregestational diabetes
(68.9% with type 2), 40.1% had an A1c <6.5% in early pregnancy (mean:
10.5 weeks) and 61.5% had an<6.5% in late pregnancy (mean: 31.3
weeks). Overall, 15.8% of individuals screened positive for postpartum
depressive symptoms. In adjusted analyses, a glycemic target of an
A1c <6.5% was not significantly associated with the risk of postpartum
depressive symptoms in either early pregnancy (31.4 vs. 41.7%; aRR:
0.71; 95% CI: 0.33 to 1.56) or late pregnancy (57.6% vs. 62.2%; aRR:
0.91; 95% CI: 0.43 to 1.95) pregnancy. These results were similar at
a lower A1c threshold of <6.0% or whether A1c either decreased or
remained <6.5% across pregnancy.
Conclusion: In an integrated prenatal and diabetes care program,
achievement of glycemic targets in early or in late pregnancy was not
associated with postpartum depressive symptoms (i.e., EPDS>10) among
individuals with pregestational diabetes.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 241A
Saturday Posters
S-090
Trajectory of Lactation Outcomes on Maternal Health in Murine
Model. Ariana Samaniego, Schmerber David, Madison Lay, Meera
Rath, Kaitlin D. Kersh, Sureshkumar Mulampurath Achuthan Pillai, Egle
Bytautiene Prewit∗. UT Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United
States.
Introduction: Epidemiological studies suggest that lactation lowers
the risk of maternal cardiovascular disease, which may be mediated by
oxytocin production through nipple stimulation and maternal-offspring
interaction. We hypothesize that mice experiencing lactation will show
higher oxytocin expression and lower inflammation than those without
lactation or maternal-pup interaction. The study aims to provide insights
into the long-term benefits of lactation.
Methods: Six-week-old CD-1 mice underwent thelectomy (surgically
removed nipples) or sham-thelectomy (incision near nipples), were bred,
and after delivery, were divided into three groups: dams housed with pups
for normal lactation (STL), dams housed with another lactating dam and
eight pups for maternal-pup interaction (TL), and dams separated from
pups immediately after delivery (CSTL). Before surgery, at 1 and 6 months
post-delivery, systolic (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP) via tail
cuff, and fasting glucose were measured, and micro-CT was performed
to determine the distribution of subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue
(VAT). Then, dams were euthanized, and tissues collected. The mRNA
of oxytocin (OXT) and oxytocin receptor (OXTR) in the hypothalamus
(HT), heart, VAT, and CD38 in HT was determined. Circulating OXT,
IL-6, and CRP were analyzed. For statistical analysis, One-Way ANOVA
and Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA with the appropriate post-hoc tests were
utilized (P less than 0.5).
Results: qPCR showed a significant decrease in OXT gene expression
in CSTL mice compared to the TL mice (p=0.023). No differences were
found for OXT and OXTR expression in heart (p=0.755, p=0.146)
or adipose tissues (p=0.83, p=0.25). CD38 was not significant in the
hypothalamus (p=0.48). IL-6 significantly decreased over time (p=0.006),
while CRP did not differ among groups (0.24). Plasma oxytocin
levels were analyzed using Luminex, with no difference found across
groups in mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) (p=0.11) or concentration
(p=0.97). Visceral adipose tissue (VAT) increased significantly over time
(p<0.0001); however, subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) did not show
significant changes (p=0.61, p=0.77). Systolic (p=0.47, p=0.58) p=or
diastolic (p=0.62, p=0.85) blood pressure showed no significant changes.
Conclusion: The significant decrease in OXT gene expression in the
CSTL group compared to the TL group suggests maternal-pup interaction
enhances oxytocin signaling. While IL-6 levels decreased over time,
there was no difference among groups. CRP and plasma oxytocin levels
showed no difference among groups. VAT increasing over time suggests
that more research is needed to determine how lactation affects metabolic
health. These findings indicate that lactation and maternal-pup interaction
may enhance oxytocin production, but its effects on inflammation need
further investigation.
S-091
Fibrinolytic Potential over the Course of Pregnancy and the
Postpartum Period. Maria Cristina Bravo,1 Kelley McLean,2 Matthew
Gissel,1 Thomas Orfeo,1 Ira Bernstein∗.2 1University of Vermont, Colchester,
VT, United States; 2University of Vermont Medical Center, Burlington,
VT, United States.
Introduction: Pregnancy and the postpartum (PP) period are associated
with an increased risk of thrombosis. Reports have demonstrated increased
biochemical coagulation potential across pregnancy and postpartum.
However, changes in fibrinolytic potential across this period have not
been reported. Here, we assess whole blood coagulant and fibrinolytic
potential prior to pregnancy through the postpartum period.
Methods: This is a sub-analysis of individuals (N=14) with uncomplicated
singleton pregnancies, who enrolled in an IRB-approved prospective
study. Blood was collected into citrate and corn trypsin inhibitor (to
prevent contact pathway activation) at the following time points: Visit
(V) 1, follicular phase; V2, 11-14 weeks gestation (GA); V3, 37-41 weeks
GA; V4, 18-48 hours PP; V5, 4 months PP. Clot formation and lysis
dynamics were assessed via viscoelastometry (ROTEM) in recalcified
whole blood supplemented with tissue factor (TF) ± tissue plasminogen
activator (TPA). ROTEM clot formation parameters (clot time [CT],
alpha angle [α, clot formation rate], maximum clot firmness [MCF, clot
strength]) were measured under both conditions (TF and TF+TPA),
clot lysis parameters (lysis onset time [LOT] and complete lysis time
[CLT]) were measured in the TF+TPA condition only. Parameters were
compared between visits with paired t-tests. Significance was set to p <
0.01. Demographics reported as mean ± SD.
Results: Individuals (33 ± 3 years, BMI of 28 ± 8) were representative
of the local population (~85% White). 8 individuals were nulliparous
at enrollment; parous individuals (n=6) were 20 ± 4 months from their
last delivery. All deliveries were full term (GA 39.6 ± 1.3 weeks) with
normally grown infants by birthweight. During pregnancy and the early
postpartum (V2-V4), clot formation parameters were more procoagulant
than follicular phase measures (p > 0.05), consistent with previous
reports of increased coagulant potential during pregnancy. LOT and
CLT decreased (p < 0.01) in the transition from late pregnancy to early
postpartum (V3 vs. V4) indicative of an increase in fibrinolytic potential
in the immediate postpartum period. Parameters for clot formation and
fibrinolytic potential were similar (p > 0.1) between pre-pregnancy
measures (V1) and 4 months postpartum (V5).
Conclusion: There is a marked increase in fibrinolytic potential
between the late 3rd trimester and shortly after delivery of uncomplicated
pregnancies. However, by 4 months postpartum fibrinolytic parameters
do not differ from their pre-pregnancy values.
S-092
Impact of Pregnancy on Cellular and Antibody Responses to SARSCoV-
2 Antigens Following Natural Infection or Vaccination. Zainab
Saeed†,1 Orene Greer†,1 Qiqi Li†,1 Zhuangzi Wang†,1 Alice Clement†,1
Ahdab Alsaieedi∗,2 Peter Kelleher∗,1 Mark Johnson∗,1 Nishel M Shah†.1,3
1Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom; 2King Abdulaziz
University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; 3Chelsea and Westminster NHS
Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: During pregnancy, the immune system undergoes
adaptations that protect the mother while preventing an immune response
against paternal antigens. These changes have also been linked to increased
susceptibility to viral respiratory infections, such as SARS-CoV-1 and
influenza. Our study aimed to investigate the differences in immune
response to SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination in pregnant women
(PW) compared to non-pregnant women (nPW) over time.
Methods: Healthy PW and nPW diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 infection
were recruited from July 2020 to January 2022, spanning the Alpha,
Delta, and Omicron waves. Following the availability of the mRNA
vaccine, we recruited PW and nPW women from February 2021 from
local vaccine centres. Peripheral blood samples were collected from
208 participants longitudinally. Immune profiling was undertaken using
Flow Cytometry, enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISpot) for T cell
recall responses and memory B cell IgG responses, cytokine-bead array,
chemiluminescent immunoassay for to SARS-CoV-2 IgG in serum, and
neutralising antibody titres.
Results: Our findings highlight the unique aspects of immune protection
in PW. Post-infection, PW showed lower initial anti-nucleoprotein (NP)
levels and a faster decline in anti-Spike (S) antibodies versus non-PW.
Cellular responses also differed, with reductions in activated B cells,
circulating T-follicular helper (cTFH) cells that facilitate B-cell activation
and antibody generation, but stable memory B cell responses. No
differences were observed in cTFH subsets, class-switched plasmablasts,
or memory B cells. Vaccine responses varied notably. Seroconversion
rates and anti-S antibody levels were unaffected by pregnancy. However,
PW had fewer cTFH, which were mainly Th2-like, but no differences in
plasmablast, or memory B cell populations. T cell phenotype, antigenspecific
responses, and plasma cytokine levels remained comparable
between PW and nPW in both infection and vaccine cohorts.
Conclusion: We propose that the interactions between cTFH and B cells
appear to be critical in determining vaccine outcomes in PW. This has
important implications for vaccine development, where challenges include
242A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
efficacy, scalability, cost, and immunogenicity. Assessing immunogenicity
in immune-diverse populations, like PW, remains difficult, highlighting the
need to address this knowledge gap as more vaccines are recommended
during pregnancy.
S-093
COVID-19 Vaccination in Pregnancy: A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.
Lily Ben-Avi†, Amelia H Gagliuso, Sarah Dzubay, Olivia Curl, Aaron B
Caughey∗. Oregon Health & Sciences University, Portland, OR, United
States.
Introduction: Pregnant people with COVID-19 infection are at higher
risk for severe infection, which can result in preterm birth and other
adverse outcomes. ACOG strongly recommends that all pregnant patients
be vaccinated against COVID-19, as it reduces maternal and fetal
mortality and morbidity. However, as of May 11, 2024, only 13.3% of
pregnant persons had received the updated 2023-24 COVID-19 vaccine.
The purpose of this study is to assess the cost-effectiveness of universal
COVID-19 vaccination in pregnancy.
Methods: We constructed a decision-analytic model using TreeAge
to compare outcomes in pregnant patients who received COVID-19
vaccination to those who remained unvaccinated. Our theoretical cohort
included 3,664,292 pregnancies, the annual births in 2023. We used a
COVID-19 attack rate of 13.4%, the test positivity rate in September
2023, which is likely an underestimate given the infrequency of screening
testing programs. Our outcomes include COVID-19 infection, stillbirth,
neonatal death, neurodevelopmental delay, costs, effectiveness, and
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). We used a willingness-to-pay for
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $100,000/QALY. Model inputs
were derived from the literature and QALYs generated at a discount rate of
3%. Sensitivity analyses were performed to quantify the robustness of our
model. This model assesses QALYs from both the maternal perspective
and the infant perspective.
Results: In our cohort, COVID-19 vaccination for pregnant patients was
the dominant strategy. For a one-year theoretical cohort of 3,664,292
patients, the COVID-19 vaccine was associated with a decrease of
171,855 COVID-19 infections, 1,667 stillbirths, 34 neonatal deaths, and
50 cases of neurodevelopmental delay. Vaccination saved $198 million
dollars and increased QALYs by 5,515,542. Univariate sensitivity analysis
demonstrated that the vaccine is cost-saving until the COVID-19 attack
rate drops below 5.8%.
Conclusion: In our study, the COVID-19 vaccine saved $198 million
dollars and increased QALYs by 5,515,542. Our findings suggest that
providers should continue to recommend that pregnant patients receive
the COVID-19 vaccine.
S-094
Effects of Social Adversity on Vaginal Inflammatory Environment
during Pregnancy. Mercedez Swencki†,1 Kayleen Lau†,2 Landen
Kukahiwa†,1 Kate Rodriguez†,1 Kayti Luu†,1 Jonathan Riel,1 Corrie
Miller∗.1 1University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI, United States; 2A.T. Still
College of Osteopathic Medicine, Mesa, AZ, United States.
Introduction: Molecular inflammatory processes are known to be
involved with adverse pregnancy outcomes (APO) such as preeclampsia
and preterm labor. Cytokine profiling is commonly investigated in
mechanistic studies of APO. Evaluation of these biomarkers should
account for the social environment in which a pregnant person lives. This
pilot study aimed to determine the association of vaginal inflammation
with stress and social adversity during pregnancy by integrating molecular
biomarkers and social determinants to enhance our understanding of how
inflammation may contribute to APO.
Methods: A pilot study of 36 pregnant women aimed to measure the
relationship between inflammation, social adversity, resiliency, and
adverse pregnancy outcomes. Each participant completed a series of
surveys related to levels of stress, discrimination, oppression, and other
social determinants of health in their daily lives. The composite of the
surveys was calculated as a ‘social adversity score.’ Participants were
categorized as ‘high’ or ‘low’ (above or below median). A vaginal swab
was collected from each participant in the 2nd trimester and subjected to
multiplex ELISA to evaluate levels of 8 cytokines: IFN-gamma, TNFalpha,
IL-6, IL-8, MCP1, IL1-beta, IL-10, and IP10. Vaginal cytokines
levels were compared among those with high vs. low social adversity,
resiliency levels, and composite APO (preterm labor - PTL, gestational
hypertension - GHTN, gestational diabetes - GDM) via students t-test
(p-value <0.05 = significant). Aggregate cytokine profile for each
participant was compared via principal component analysis after a distance
matrix was derived, and PERMANOVA was used to compare high and
low adversity, resiliency, and APO groups.
Results: Among 36 participants, there were 8 participants (23%) with
APO: 1 GDM, 3 GHTN, 4 PTL. There were no statistical differences in
cytokine levels among participants with high vs. low social adversity,
resiliency, or APO. Participants with composite APO had higher resiliency
scores (Connor-Davidson Resiliency Index 27.9 vs. 31.8, p = 0.007).
PERMANOVA did not show any statistical differences of centroids among
overall composite adversity, individual level stress, resiliency or APO.
Participants with high social adversity scores were also those with the
highest resiliency scores.
Conclusion: In this pilot study, there were no differences detected in
vaginal cytokine levels among individuals with higher levels of social
adversity, resiliency or APO. Continued refinement of individual and
systemic adversity measures should be incorporated into translational
reproductive outcome research.
S-095
Effects of Pregnancy and Obesity on Glucose Metabolism in Skeletal
Muscle. Ella Rust†, Jenny Koenig, Liam Fitzgerald, Lindsey Burnett∗.
University of California, San Diego, la Jolla, CA, United States.
Introduction: Obesity impacts 42% of reproductive-aged women in
the United States and is strongly associated with metabolic dysfunction
including insulin resistance. Pregnancy is also thought to induce insulin
resistance; however, prior studies employed supraphysiologic insulin
levels which may not fully reflect in vivo physiology. The interaction
between pregnancy and maternal diet on physiologic glucose handling
remains to be completely elucidated. This study aims to clarify the effects
of diet-induced obesity and pregnancy on systemic glucose tolerance and
insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in skeletal muscle using a mouse model.
Methods: C57/Bl6 mice were placed on either a low-fat diet (LFD) or a
60% high-fat diet (HFD) for 6 weeks before randomized mating, resulting
in four experimental groups: LFD non-pregnant (NP), LFD late-pregnant
(LP), HFD NP, and HFD LP. A 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (oGTT)
was conducted on LP mice (E12.5-17.5) and age-matched NP mice
following administration of a 2 g/kg dextrose solution. Blood glucose
levels were measured from the tail vein longitudinally. Skeletal muscle
glucose uptake was assessed using radioactively labeled 2-deoxyglucose
(2-DG) in the soleus muscle of fasted mice, with and without physiological
insulin stimulation (0.36 nM). Data were analyzed using a 2-way ANOVA
with appropriate post-hoc tests, and statistical significance was set at
p=0.05.
Results: HFD-fed NP mice weighed significantly more than LFD-fed
controls (30.20 g vs 19.97 g, p<0.0001). Systemic glucose tolerance, as
measured by the area under the curve (AUC) after the oGTT, showed
significant differences between LFD- and HFD-fed mice (NP: LFD 18,055
vs HFD 24,089 mg x min/dL, p=0.006). However, there were no significant
differences in glucose tolerance between NP and LP mice within either
diet group (LFD: NP 18,055 vs LP 16,074 mg x min/dL, p=0.66; HFD:
NP HFD 24,089 vs LP 21,311 mg x min/dL, p=0.32). In the functional
2-DG assay, insulin-stimulated glucose uptake was decreased by HFDfeeding,
but not by pregnancy (LFD: NP 1.14 vs LP 0.98 μmol/20 min/g,
p=0.64; NP: LFD vs HFD 0.69 μmol/20 min/g, p=0.03; HFD: NP vs LP
0.53 μmol/20 min/g, p=0.68).
Conclusion: This study demonstrates that diet-induced obesity
significantly affects systemic glucose tolerance and insulin-stimulated
glucose uptake in skeletal muscle, although pregnancy does not have a
similar effect. These findings suggest that pre-pregnancy maternal diet
(and not pregnancy itself) is critical to insulin sensitivity in the setting of
physiologic insulin levels.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 243A
Saturday Posters
S-096
A Comprehensive Risk-Prediction Model for Pregnancies of Uncertain
Viability (PUV) Among Women with Threatened Miscarriage. Min Tse
Marie Tan†,1 Chee Wai Ku∗,2,3 Yu Bin Tan†,3 Ting Yu Chang†,2 Celeste
Hong Fei Lim†,2 Rehena Sultana∗,3 See Ling Loy∗,2,3 Thiam Chye Tan∗.3
1National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; 2KK Women’s and
Children’s Hospital, Singapore, Singapore; 3Duke-NUS Medical School,
Singapore, Singapore.
Introduction: Pregnancy of Uncertain Viability (PUV) affects one in
five pregnancies. The prognosis of PUVs is often uncertain, and there
is currently a paucity of prediction models to guide clinicians in the
management of this condition. This leads to significant anxiety, especially
among those who presents with threatened miscarriage. This study aims to
develop and evaluate the performance of a comprehensive risk-prediction
model for miscarriage among women with PUV who presented with
threatened miscarriage.
Methods: This prospective cohort study was conducted from October
2017 to May 2023 at KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital, Singapore.
Women with threatened miscarriage between 5 and 12 weeks gestation,
with an intrauterine pregnancy without a fetal pole were included. Key
exposure variables included maternal age, nausea, gestational age by last
menstrual period (LMP), history of miscarriages, and serum progesterone.
The primary outcome is miscarriage at or before 16 weeks gestation.
Multiple models were developed using multivariable logistic regression,
adjusting for variables included in the model. Performance was evaluated
by area under receiver-operating characteristics (AUROC) curve analysis.
Results: Among 1938 women who presented with threatened miscarriage,
544 (28.1%) were diagnosed with PUV without a fetal pole. After
excluding 98 women who were lost to follow-up, 446 women were
included in the final analyses. 187 women (41.9%) miscarried at or before
16 weeks. Their mean age was 31.6 ± 4.8 years and their mean maternal
body mass index (BMI) was 25.0 ± 5.6 kg/m2. The absence of nausea
(odds ratio (OR) 2.79, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.58 - 4.91) was
the strongest clinical factor while serum progesterone (OR = 22.0, 95%
CI: 13.25 - 36.53) was the strongest overall factor across all models in
predicting outcome of miscarriage at or before 16 weeks gestation. The
model with the highest AUROC of 0.89 (95% CI 0.85 - 0.92) included
four clinical and biochemical factors, namely maternal age (adjusted odds
ratio (aOR) 1.09, 95% CI 1.02 - 1.16), absence of nausea (aOR 3.34, 95%
CI 1.54 - 7.28), gestation age by LMP (aOR 1.54, 95% CI 1.23 - 1.94)
and serum progesterone (aOR 15.99, 95% CI 8.61 - 29.70).
Conclusion: This study has shown that the combination of four clinical
and biochemical factors has great potential to predict the outcome of PUV
among women who presented with threatened miscarriage in the first
trimester. This paves the way for future studies to validate this prediction
model and guide clinical management of women with PUV.
S-097
Benzodiazepine Use and Cesarean Delivery for Labor Arrest in
Nulliparous Term Singleton Vertex (NTSV) Pregnancies. Jamie A.
Green, Frank I. Jackson†, Nathan A. Keller†, Sarah Abelman†, Luis A.
Bracero, Matthew J. Blitz. Northwell Health South Shore University
Hospital, Bay Shore, NY, United States.
Introduction: Cesarean delivery due to labor arrest is a common concern
in obstetrical care, and understanding potential contributing factors will
optimize maternal outcomes. This study aims to determine whether
benzodiazepine use is associated with cesarean delivery for labor arrest
among nulliparous term singleton vertex (NTSV) pregnancies.
Methods: This was a retrospective cohort study of NTSV pregnancies
within a large health care system in New York from 2019-2022.
Benzodiazepine use was determined from the medication reconciliation
document completed during hospital admission. The primary outcome
was cesarean delivery for an indication of failed induction or arrest
of dilation or descent. A failed induction was defined as > 18 hours of
oxytocin use after membrane rupture without progression to the active
phase (6 cm). Arrest of dilation was defined as no change in dilation for
4 hours of adequate (> 200 Montevideo units) or 6 hours of inadequate
(< 200 Montevideo units) contractions. Arrest of descent was defined as
> 3 hours of pushing without delivery. Multivariable logistic regression
was used to estimate the strength of association between benzodiazepine
use and cesarean delivery adjusting for obesity, pre-existing diabetes,
hypertensive disorders, induction of labor, race and ethnicity group, and
advanced maternal age. All statistical analyses were performed in R 4.3.1.
Results: In total, 31,883 NTSV pregnancies were identified with 182
(0.6%) with and 31,701 (99.4%) without benzodiazepine exposure. Before
adjustments, 34 (18%) compared to 2781 (12%) without benzodiazepine
exposure had a NTSV cesarean delivery for failed induction, arrest of
dilation, or arrest of descent, OR: 1.70 [1.15-2.43]. After adjustment for
covariates, this finding was not significant, aOR: 1.42 [0.96-2.06].
Conclusion: Benzodiazepine use was not associated with increased odds
of NTSV cesarean deliveries for labor arrest.
S-098
Pregnancy Outcomes in Women with Heart Disease Diagnosed in
Pregnancy vs. Pre-Pregnancy: Data from ROPAC Registry. Gurleen
Wander†,1 Anneroos van der Zande†,2 Jolien W. Roos-Hesselink∗,2 Mark
Johnson∗.1 1Imperial College, London, United Kingdom; 2Erasmus MC,
University Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
Introduction: To understand the importance of pre-conception
optimization, we compared the pregnancy outcomes of women diagnosed
pre-pregnancy (n=3614) with those diagnosed with heart disease in
pregnancy (n=472).
Methods: Registry Of Pregnancy And Cardiac disease (ROPAC) is a
prospective, worldwide, observational registry from 2007-2018 for women
with heart disease with data from 138 centres in 53 countries.
Results: Women diagnosed with heart disease in pregnancy came from
lower- and middle-income countries (17.5% vs. 6.5%, p<0.001), had a
history of hypertension (9.9% vs. 6.2%, p=0.003), and fewer were on
cardiac medication (3.6% vs. 16.9%, p<0.001). They experienced a higher
maternal mortality (2.1% vs. 0.4%, p<0.001), more cardiac admissions
(22.2% vs. 11.3%, p<0.001), heart failure (26.1% vs. 9.0%, p<0.001),
ventricular arrhythmia (3.2% vs. 1.5%, p=0.009), acute coronary events
(3.0% vs. 0.1%, p<0.001), and modified WHO class IV conditions (23.1%
vs 7.8%, p<0.001). More had valvular heart disease, cardiomyopathy, and
ischaemic heart disease, fewer had congenital heart disease (all p<0.05).
They had more preterm birth (20.6% vs. 15.1%, p=0.003), preeclampsia
and eclampsia (6.3% vs. 2.5%, p<0.001), deliveries by Caesarean section,
(57.8% vs. 51.7%, p=0.017), emergency Caesarean section (19.5% vs.
11.8%, p<0.001; for cardiac reasons (6.8% vs. 1.3%, p<0.001). They had
more low Apgar scores (<7 at 5 minutes; 9.5% vs. 6.5%, p=0.016) and
lower birthweight (2864gm vs 2987gm, p<0.001).
Conclusion: The failure to identify and optimize cardiac disease before
pregnancy results in a markedly worse pregnancy outcome. Ideally,
women of child-bearing age should be screened for cardiac disease preconception
or at the time of booking.
S-100
SNAI1 Serves as a Conserved Regulator of Trophoblast Cell-Guided
Events at the Uterine-Placental Interface. Sawyer H. Smith†,1 Ayelen
Moreno-Irusta,1 Khursheed Iqbal,2 Esteban M. Dominguez†,1 Michael
J. Soares∗.1,1,3 1University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS,
United States; 2Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK, United States;
3Children’s Mercy Research Institute, Kansas City, MO, United States.
Introduction: Connectivity between maternal and fetal circulations
is critical for fetal development, maternal health, and a successful
pregnancy outcome. This maternal-fetal vascular connection is achieved
through the actions of specialized trophoblast cells, which invade into
the uterus and remodel spiral arteries resulting in delivery of nutrients
to the fetus. Invasive trophoblast cells arise from trophoblast stem
(TS) cells and are known as extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cells in the
human. Differentiation of the invasive trophoblast/EVT cell lineage is
characterized by a loss of some epithelial cell features, an acquisition
of motility, and the ability to invade deeply into the uterine-placental
interface. This has invited comparisons to epithelial to mesenchymal
244A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
transition (EMT), which occurs during embryogenesis and cancer
metastasis. SNAI1, a regulator of EMT, may contribute to the regulation
of invasive trophoblast/EVT cell development.
Methods: We used human and rat TS cells, human placenta tissue, and
rat models to investigate the role of SNAI1 in development of invasive
trophoblast cells. Distributions of SNAI1 transcripts were assessed
using in situ hybridization and RT-qPCR. Loss-of-function models were
generated with CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing and ectopic expression of
short hairpin RNAs.
Results: SNAI1 was expressed in invasive trophoblast cells of the
rat uterine-placental interface, in EVT cells of first trimester human
placentas, and in locations where these cells first emerge (e.g. junctional
zone and EVT cell column). In the rat uterine-placental interface, SNAI1
colocalized with a known marker of invasive trophoblast cells (Prl7b1).
Putative targets of SNAI1, MMP15 and COL4A1, were also localized
to invasive trophoblast of the rat uterine-placental interface. SNAI1
expression increased in rat and human TS cells during their differentiation
to invasive trophoblast and EVT cells, respectively. Disruption of SNAI1
interfered with the progression of EVT cell differentiation. We used a Crelox
approach to conditionally inactivate Snai1 in the invasive trophoblast
cell lineage. Phenotypic analysis of the in vivo role of SNAI1 in invasive
trophoblast cells is underway.
Conclusion: SNAI1 is a conserved regulator of trophoblast cell-guided
uterine transformative events required for optimal placentation. [Supported
by BRTP, KINBRE, and Lalor Foundation postdoctoral awards (EMD,
AMI), NIH K99 award (HD115834, AMI), NIH R21 award HD104071
(KI), HD20676, HD105734, HD112559, and the Sosland Foundation]
S-101
Polarized Microvilliation on Cytotrophoblasts is Necessary for ST
Development. Wendy K Duan†, Juan F Garcia Rivas, Ivan K Domingo,
Meghan Riddell∗. University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
Introduction: The syncytiotrophoblast (ST) is a multinucleated cell
that makes up most of the maternal-fetal interface of the placenta.
Maintenance of the ST requires the fusion of underlying progenitor
villous cytotrophoblasts (vCT). ST fusion defects have been documented
in pregnancy complications like intrauterine growth restriction. We have
recently shown that vCT adopt a more polarized phenotype and develop
apical microvilli prior to ST development. Disruption of microvilliation
using ezrin inhibitor treatment impairs fusion by 85.9%. But the function
of vCT microvilli to support fusion is unknown. We hypothesize that
microvilli allow for polarized intracellular trafficking and accumulation
of fusion-promoting proteins, leading to effective ST development.
Methods: To enrich fusion-competent vCT and synchronize cell fusion
we used an explant ST regeneration model. 9-12wk gestational age human
placental tissues were cut into explants and trypsinized to denude the ST
and cultured for up to 72hrs. Explants were treated ± ezrin inhibitor at
24hrs and RNA collected for bulk RNA-seq or stained with anti-EEA1
antibody. To target apical CD98, anti-CD98 cross-linking was also initiated
at 24hrs to alter CD98 localization. Explants were treated ± anti-CD98
mAb 1, anti-CD98 mAb 2, or isotype control at 24hrs. Endosome size
(EEA1) was analyzed using a χ2 test. Fusion was analyzed using an
unpaired one-way ANOVA.
Results: Bulk sequencing analyses showed that ezrin inhibition decreased
ST marker genes and increased vCT marker gene relative expression. GO
pathway analyses showed that ezrin inhibition significantly downregulated
glycosylation and glycoprotein biosynthesis. A critical glycoprotein CD98
(fusion regulating protein-1) was accumulated in the apical microvillar
domain. Anti-CD98 crosslinking impaired the apical accumulation
of CD98 (p=0.006) and decreased fusion by 84.2% (p=0.001). Early
endosomes were found to be abundant within vCT apical microvilli.
With ezrin inhibition, early endosomes were less restricted to the apical
domain (p=0.044) and were significantly smaller compared to vehicle
controls (p<0.0001).
Conclusion: Disruption of microvillar stability impairs glycosylation
and endocytosis. The polarized accumulation of the glycoprotein CD98
is necessary for fusion. We propose that the polarized accumulation
of microvilli is necessary for spatially restricting and amplifying key
signalling pathways that mediate ST development. By better understanding
the mechanisms governing vCT fusion, we can elucidate mechanisms
leading to aberrant ST differentiation in pregnancy complications, leading
to the development of treatments for placental dysfunction in the future.
S-102
Expression of Primate Specific sFlt1 Splice Variants in Distinct
Placental Cells Across Different Stages of Normal and Preeclamptic
Pregnancies. Sri Padma Ravali Kanigalpula†,1 Gracy Rosario†,1 Hruda
Malik†,1 Sabita Dhal∗,1 Shilpa Babbar∗,2 Thajasvarie Naicker∗,3 Ov
Slayden∗,4 Nihar Nayak∗.1 1University of Missouri Kansas City School of
Medicine, Kansas City, MO, United States; 2University of Missouri Kansas
City, Kansas City, MO, United States; 3University of KwaZulu-Natal,
Durban, South Africa; 4Oregon Health & Science University, Portland,
OR, United States.
Introduction: Although elevated circulating levels of soluble fms like
tyrosine kinase 1 (sFlt1) are well documented in various pregnancy
complications, including preeclampsia, the expression and regulation
of the primate specific placental splice variant e15a have not been
thoroughly characterized. This study investigates the pregnancy stage
specific expression and regulation of two major placental splice variants,
e15a and i13, in primates, focusing on early gestation and preeclampsia.
Methods: We utilized 3 full thickness implantation site tissue sections
from rhesus macaques (Days 20, 21, and 22) and 16 human placental
samples from different stages of normal and preeclamptic pregnancies.
First trimester samples were collected from women undergoing pregnancy
terminations, and placental tissues from women with preeclampsia and
term controls were obtained at delivery. RNA in situ hybridization was
used to assess the cellular expression of the sFlt1 splice variants, utilizing
custom designed BaseScope and RNAScope probes.
Results: Full thickness macaque implantation site samples facilitated in
depth analysis of the expression and localization of various sFlt1 splice
variants across different placental cell types during the early stages of
placental development. The transcripts for i13 and e15a were primarily
found in extravillous trophoblasts (EVTs) and in a limited number of
villi, especially near the maternal fetal interface. In human placentas, the
expression patterns of both i13 and e15a during early pregnancy were
comparable to those seen in macaques. In term placentas (controls),
expression was largely confined to EVTs in the basal plate/decidua. In
preeclamptic placentas, both e15a and i13 exhibited significantly elevated
expression in EVTs and were also detected in some villi near the basal
plate. The expression signals for both variants were distinctly focal within
the villi but more broadly distributed in the EVTs. Furthermore, the e15a
signal was notably stronger in the villi, whereas the i13 signal was more
intense in the EVTs.
Conclusion: Our findings indicate that the expression and regulation
of placental sFlt1 splice variants are both unique and conserved across
primates. The highly localized expression of e15a and i13, restricted
to specific cell types, challenges the prevailing assumption of their
widespread distribution. This targeted expression underscores the
necessity of exploring cell specific regulatory mechanisms of sFlt1 to
better understand the pathophysiology of pregnancy complications that
are unique to humans.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 245A
Saturday Posters
S-103
Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Gamma Directs
Trophoblast Cell-Guided Uterine Transformation Critical to
Establishment of the Uterine-Placental Interface. Esteban M
Dominguez†,1 Ayelen Moreno-Irusta,1 Khursheed Iqbal,1 Alex R
Finlinson,2 Marc Parrish,2 Michael J Soares.1,2,3 1Institute for Reproductive
and Developmental Sciences, Department of Pathology & Laboratory
Medicine, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United
States; 2Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Kansas
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States; 3Center for Perinatal
Research, Children’s Mercy Research Institute, Children’s Mercy, Kansas
City, MO, United States.
Introduction: Establishing a successful pregnancy depends on trophoblast
cells. The expansion and differentiation of trophoblast stem (TS) cells
dictate the fundamental properties of the placenta. A specialized subset
of differentiated trophoblast cells, known as extravillous trophoblast
(EVT) cells in human and invasive trophoblast cells in the rat, invades and
remodels the uterine spiral arteries (SpA). Impairments in SpA remodeling
led to pregnancy complications that cause morbidity/mortality of mother
and fetus. There is a gap in knowledge of the mechanisms that control
trophoblast cell differentiation into specialized invasive trophoblast cell
lineages. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are nuclear
receptors that act as ligand-activated transcription factors to regulate gene
expression. PPAR gamma (PPARG) plays a role in successful placentation.
We investigated the role of PPARG in invasive trophoblast/EVT cell
development and establishment of the rat uterine-placental interface (UPI).
Methods: PPARG expression was evaluated in rat and human
placentation sites at different time points using in situ hybridization
and immunohistochemistry (IHC). PPARG expression was assessed by
RT-qPCR in human TS cells in stem and EVT states. Human TS cell
development was investigated following PPARG silencing with short
hairpin RNAs. Cell lineage specific (Cre-LoxP system) was used to
investigate the biology of PPARG at the in the invasive trophoblast cell
lineage of the rat placenta.
Results: Pparg transcripts were localized to invasive trophoblast cells
of the UPI and in trophoblast cell lineages of the labyrinth zone of the
rat placenta. In addition, Pparg positive cells within the UPI co-localized
with cells expressing transcripts for Prl7b1, an invasive trophoblast cell
marker. PPARG transcripts were expressed in the EVT cell column and
increased in abundance following differentiation of human TS cells
to EVT cells. Similar results were observed by IHC of human and rat
placentation sites. PPARG disruption impaired in vitro human TS stem
cell differentiation to EVT cells and in vivo development of the invasive
trophoblast cell lineage in the rat.
Conclusion: In conclusion, PPARG is a conserved driver of placentation
and the invasive/EVT cell lineage. [Supported by BRTP, KINBRE, and
Lalor Foundation postdoctoral awards (EMD, AMI), an NIH K99 award
(HD115834, AMI), and NIH R21 award HD104071 (KI), HD20676,
HD105734, HD112559, and the Sosland Foundation]
S-104
TMEM16F Promotes Placental Trophoblast Ferroptosis. Zoe Shan†,
Pengfei Liang†, Huanghe Yang. Department of Biochemistry, Duke
University School of Medicine, Durham, NC, United States.
Introduction: Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent cell death driven by lipid
peroxidation, has been implicated in pregnancy complications, including
preeclampsia and preterm birth. However, the mechanisms of trophoblast
ferroptosis remain unclear. We previously identified TMEM16F, a
calcium-activated phospholipid scramblase (CaPLSase), as a key regulator
of trophoblast differentiation and placental development. Recent studies
have shown that TMEM16F facilitates ferroptosis in cancers, but its
contribution to trophoblast ferroptosis is unknown. This study aims to
dissect the roles of TMEM16F in trophoblast ferroptosis.
Methods: We employed CRISPR-Cas9 knockout (KO), siRNA
knockdown (KD), and pharmacological inhibition of TMEM16F with
20 μM 16F-Inh01 to manipulate TMEM16F expression or activity in
the BeWo trophoblast cell line. Ferroptosis was induced with RSL3 (0.5
μM for 4 hours), a GPX4 inhibitor. Cell viability was assessed via the
CellTiter-Glo assay. To dissect the underlying ferroptotic mechanisms,
time-lapse imaging was used to track reactive oxygen species (ROS)
generation (DCF), lipid peroxidation (BODIPY 581/591 C11), Ca²⁺
influx (Calbryte), phosphatidylserine (PS) exposure (Annexin V), and
membrane remodeling (bright field). Additionally, membrane elasticity,
was analyzed using a pressure clamp electrophysiology method by
measuring the pressure required to break the cell membrane. Data was
analyzed using one-way ANOVA.
Results: We found that TMEM16F KO (n=8), KD (n=3), and 16F-Inh01
(n=8) significantly reduced ferroptotic death in RSL3-treated BeWo cells
(p > 0.01). Time-lapse imaging revealed a sequence of events during
ferroptosis: ROS buildup, lipid peroxidation, and calcium influx, followed
by PS exposure, blebbing, and cell bursting. TMEM16F deficiency
significantly delays ROS buildup, lipid peroxidation, PS exposure,
membrane blebbing, and cell bursting (n=5, p > 0.05), indicating that
TMEM16F is activated by RSL3-induced calcium increase and controls
the subsequent membrane remodeling and redox regulation. Additionally,
our pressure-clamp recording showed that TMEM16F deficiency helps
preserve membrane elasticity under ferroptotic stress (n=5, p > 0.01),
further supporting that TMEM16F accelerates loss of membrane integrity.
Acute inhibition of TMEM16F with 16F-Inh01 effectively prevented
ferroptosis within only 2 hours of RSL3 treatment (n=8), suggesting that
TMEM16F is important at ferroptosis early stage.
Conclusion: Our study identifies TMEM16F CaPLSase as a critical
regulator of trophoblast ferroptosis. Ferroptosis-induced calcium elevation
activates TMEM16F, disrupting plasma membrane lipid asymmetry,
increasing ROS buildup, promoting lipid peroxidation, and accelerating
membrane destabilization. Our study thus positions TMEM16F as a
potential target for therapies aimed at preventing ferroptosis-driven
pregnancy complications and maintaining placental health.
S-105
Key Regulators of Syncytiotrophoblast Cell Lineage Development in
Human Placentation. Keisuke Kozai,1 Xingrao Ke,1 Ashley S Howard†,1,2
Qi Fu,1 Boryana S Koseva,1,1 Michael J Soares,2,2,2 Elin Grundberg,1,1
Kaela M Varberg∗.1,2,2,2 1Children’s Mercy Kansas City, Kansas City, MO,
United States; 2University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS,
United States.
Introduction: In human placentation, cytotrophoblast cells fuse to
form a continuous epithelial cell layer of syncytiotrophoblast (STB).
Multinucleated STB covers the villus surface and provide critical structural
and biochemical barriers for the developing fetus. STB also produces
hormones and growth factors to support pregnancy and promotes fetal
growth. Despite these critical functions, the key transcription factors
and signaling pathways regulating the STB cell lineage are not fully
understood. We performed genome-wide transcriptomic and epigenomic
assessments in human trophoblast stem cells to identify transcriptional
regulators of STB differentiation. Identified transcriptional regulators were
localized in placental tissue and functionally validated in vitro.
Methods: Human trophoblast stem cells were maintained in a proliferative
stem state or differentiated into the STB lineage following a six-day
3D differentiation protocol. Stem and differentiated STB cells were
analyzed using RNA-sequencing, Assay for Transposase-Accessible
Chromatin-sequencing, and HiC chromatin capture. Transcription factor
expression patterns were validated in human placental tissues by in situ
hybridization. An shRNA-mediated loss-of-function approach enabled
functional validation of individual transcription factor contributions to
STB cell differentiation.
Results: Prominent changes were identified between trophoblast stem cell
and STB cell states. Differences were identified in chromatin architecture,
chromatin accessibility, cell transcriptome, and transcription factor
binding motif signatures within accessible regions. Transcription factors
TBX3 and VGLL3 were significantly upregulated in STB cells compared
to the stem state and localized to the STB layer in second trimester
human placental tissues. TBX3 and VGLL3 depletion impaired STB
formation. Depletion of TBX3 and VGLL3 reduced STB cell surface
area and volume, human chorionic gonadotropin secretion, and altered
cell transcriptomes.
246A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Conclusion: Genome wide profiling of the chromatin landscape
identified transcription factors and signaling pathways specific to the
STB cell lineage. TBX3 and VGLL3 were functionally validated as key
transcriptional regulators of STB differentiation from the trophoblast
stem cell state.
S-106
Greater Response to Endothelin-1 in the Middle Cerebral Artery of
a Transgenic Rat Model of Preeclampsia is Mediated by Both ETA
and ETB Receptors. Victor M Pulgar,1,2 Jonathan Ray,2 Xuming Sun,2
Liliya M Yamaleyeva.2 1Campbell University, Buies Creek, NC, United
States; 2Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC,
United States.
Introduction: Alterations in vascular reactivity are at the base of the
short and long-term cerebrovascular complications of preeclampsia
(PE), making cerebrovascular disease a leading cause of morbidity and
mortality in women with PE. In a transgenic rat model of PE (TGA-PE:
female transgenic for angiotensinogen mated to male transgenic for
renin), we have shown evidence of a dysfunctional middle cerebral artery
(MCA) blood flow and reactivity vs. Sprague-Dawley rat. Considering
the importance of endothelin-1 (ET-1) system in preeclampsia, we
investigated the contribution of ET-1 receptors to the ET-1 vascular
response in TGA-PE vs. SD at 2 months post-gestation.
Methods: Plasma levels of ET-1 were measured by ELISA (R&D
Systems). Vascular responses were studied in isolated segments of
left MCA (MCA) from SD (n=8) and TGA-PE (n=7) two months
post-delivery. Arteries were mounted on a Multi-Wire Myograph for
determination of isometric force (USA-DMT). The contractile responses to
K75 mM and U46619 were determined. Responses to ET-1 (10-10-10-7M)
were measured in basal tone in the presence of the ETA blocker BQ123
(10-6M) or the ETB blocker BQ788 (10-6M); the maximal response (R)
and sensitivity (pD2=-Log[EC50]) were analyzed.
Results: Plasma levels of ET-1 were similar between SD and TGA-PE
at 2 months post-gestation (0.019±0.003 vs. 0.014±0.001 pg/mg protein,
p>0.05). The maximal response (121±4 vs. 109±6, p>0.05) and sensitivity
(9.68±0.61 vs. 10.9±0.33, p>0.05) of MCA to U46619 were not different
between TGA-PE and SD. A higher contraction to ET-1 was observed
in MCAs from TGA-PE vs. SD animals (156±5 vs. 128±5, p<0.05).
Blocking of the ETA receptor with BQ123 lowered sensitivity of MCA
from SD animals (8.92±0.16 vs. 8.06±0.01, p<0.05), whereas in TGA-PE
animals BQ123 lowered maximal response (156±5 vs. 118±10, p<0.05)
and sensitivity (8.77±0.15 vs. 7.77±0.35, p<0.05). Blocking the ETB
receptor with BQ788 did not affect ET-1 responses in MCA from SD
animals but lowered ET-1 maximal response (156±5 vs. 110±5, p<0.05)
in TGA-PE MCA.
Conclusion: We conclude that in the presence of similar plasma levels of
ET-1, an increased function of both ETA and ETB receptors contributes to
the greater contractile response to ET-1 in MCA from TGA-PE animals.
Similar U46619 responses suggested specificity for the ET-1-dependent
contractile response in the cerebral vasculature of this rodent model of
preeclampsia. A greater ET-1 response may contribute to the postpartum
cerebrovascular alterations in PE.
S-107
Early Pregnancy Anemia and Risk for Placenta Accreta Spectrum.
Tess E.K. Cersonsky†, Henri M Rosenberg, Eugenia Alleva, Isabelle C
Band, Calvin E Lambert, Angela T Bianco∗. Icahn School of Medicine
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United States.
Introduction: Many theories exist regarding the pathophysiology of
placenta accreta spectrum (PAS), including localized hypoxia at the
placental implantation site leading to abnormal decidua formation.
This suggests that uterine and placental blood flow is critical to normal
placentation. Clinically, however, it is not clear if abnormalities in maternal
blood components, particularly anemia, impact placentation. We sought
to understand if abnormal maternal blood counts during pregnancy were
associated with increased risk of PAS.
Methods: This was a planned secondary analysis of a retrospective
case-control study of patients with and without PAS at a large tertiary
care center from 2007 to 2022. Cases with PAS were identified at time of
delivery via histopathologic diagnosis or high index of clinical suspicion.
Demographic and clinical factors were extracted from the electronic
medical record and risk factors, such as previous cesarean, myomectomy,
dilation and curettage, were extracted using natural language processing.
Complete blood count (CBC) was collected for each patient at the earliest
time point in their pregnancy (<20 weeks). Bivariate analyses compared
baseline case and control characteristics and CBC. Odds ratios (OR) and
95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated for each component with
and without the presence of covariates.
Results: Eighty-eight (88) participants with PAS and 27,126 controls
were included in this study. Participants with PAS were more likely
to have early pregnancy anemia (hemoglobin < 11 g/dL) than controls
(9.1% versus 4.1%, p = 0.027). There were no baseline differences in
leukocytosis, thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytosis. Patients with early
pregnancy anemia were significantly more likely to have PAS than those
without anemia when adjusted for relevant covariates (aOR 2.91, 95%
CI 1.28 - 5.78). Early pregnancy thrombocytopenia or leukocytosis was
not associated with increased risk of PAS.
Conclusion: Early pregnancy anemia is associated with an almost
three-fold increased odds of PAS. This suggests a link between maternal
blood constitution and placentation and may serve as a helpful marker
for patients at risk of developing PAS.
S-108
Placenta Accreta and Pregnancy Outcomes in Twin Gestations in a
Large National Cohort. Stephanie A Schreiber, Rachel Harrison∗, Calla
Holmgren. Advocate, Oak Lawn, IL, United States.
Introduction: To identify the risk of placenta accreta and the associated
pregnancy outcomes in twin gestations.
Methods: Retrospective cohort study of pregnant women using the
National Inpatient Sample (NIS) from 2017-2020 through HCUP/AHRQ.
We compared singleton pregnancy delivery encounters to twin pregnancy
delivery encounters to identify rates of accreta via ICD-10 diagnosis
and need for hysterectomy or transfusion among those with an accreta
diagnosis. We excluded higher order multiples or those with unspecified
multiples and anyone who delivered before 20 weeks gestation. Statistical
analysis was performed using Stata version 17.0 via student’s T test, Chi2
analysis, and logistic regression to control for confounders.
Results: Out of more than 2.8 million pregnant patients in the NIS
database, 49,732 patients had an ICD-10 diagnosis of twin pregnancy.
Those with twins were older, more likely to have conceived via in vitro
fertilization, more likely to have a history of uterine surgery, and more
likely to have private insurance (p<0.05). History of cesarean section
was approximately 17% for both groups. The risk of placenta accreta
was higher in twin pregnancies than in singleton pregnancies (0.21%
vs 0.10%, p<0.001). There was no significant difference in risk of
increta/percreta (0.03% vs 0.02%, p=0.445). Twin pregnancies with
placenta accreta were more likely to undergo hysterectomy and receive
blood transfusion compared to singleton pregnancies (p<0.001). When
controlling for confounders, the risk of placenta accreta, but not increta
or percreta, remained associated with twin gestation (aOR 1.79, 95% CI
1.46-2.20). The increased risks of accreta requiring hysterectomy (aOR
2.34, 95%CI 2.01-2.70) and blood transfusion (aOR 3.81, 95% CI 3.64-
3.99) also persisted.
Conclusion: Twin pregnancy is an independent risk factor for placenta
accreta and is associated with increased rates of hysterectomy and need
for transfusion. Rates of more severe placental invasion (increta/percreta)
are similar between singleton and twin gestations.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 247A
Saturday Posters
S-109
Cost Comparison of Placenta Accreta, Previa, and Previa with Accreta
in a Large National Cohort. Stephanie Schreiber†,1 Rachel Harrison∗,2
Calla Holmgren.2 1Ascension St. Alexius, Hoffman Estates, IL, United
States; 2Advocate Christ Medical Center, Oak Lawn, IL, United States.
Introduction: Placenta accreta and previa are independently associated
with increased cost and adverse outcomes. We aim to compare these cost
and adverse outcomes in patients with - placenta previa, placenta accreta,
or both placenta previa and accreta.
Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study of pregnant women using
the National Inpatient Sample from 2017-2020 through HCUP/AHRQ.
Included patients had a diagnosis of placenta previa, placenta accreta,
or both. The primary outcomes compared were cost, length of stay,
hysterectomy, hemorrhage, transfusion, DIC, and wound complication.
Statistical analysis was performed using Stata version 17.0 via ANOVA,
chi2 analysis, and logistic and linear regression to control for confounders.
Results: Over 17,000 patients in the dataset were found to have placenta
previa and/or accreta. Those diagnosed with both placenta previa and
accreta were more likely to have a history of prior cesarean section
(p < 0.001). They were also more likely to experience hysterectomy,
hemorrhage, transfusion, DIC and wound complication (all p < 0.001).
These findings persisted after controlling for confounders. For patients
with placenta previa and accreta, there was a significant increase in cost
[96.7-97.5k (both) vs 57.5-66.2k (accreta) vs 37.0-42.7k (previa)] and
length of hospital stay [9.3-11.2d (both) vs 5.0-6.7d (accreta) vs 5.0-7.4d
(previa)]. When comparing ‘placenta previa and accreta vs previa’ with
‘placenta accreta vs previa’ and adjusting for confounders, both the cost
difference and length of stay difference remained significant.
Conclusion: A diagnosis of both placenta previa and accreta is associated
with higher cost, longer hospital stay, and increased maternal morbidity.
This should be taken into consideration when counseling patients with
both complications.
S-110
Gestational Diabetes Increases Mechanical Properties at the
Microstructural Scale within Umbilical Vasculature. Kara Peak†,
Gajan Dileepan†, Kyoko Yoshida∗, Sarah Wernimont∗, Victor Barocas∗.
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, United States.
Introduction: Improper vascular development of the umbilical-placental
unit can negatively impact fetal hemodynamics and cardiovascular
development. Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is associated with
placental vascular abnormalities and may impact hemodynamics and
cardiovascular development through unclear mechanisms. Here, we test
how GDM affects the structure and function of the umbilical vasculature
at the tissue and microstructural scale through characterization of the
mechanical properties and extracellular matrix.
Methods: Human umbilical samples were collected after scheduled,
term Cesarean and vaginal deliveries. Umbilical cords were obtained
from individuals with GDM requiring insulin and healthy individuals
with no identified maternal comorbidities. Dissected umbilical arteries
(UAs) and veins (UVs) underwent mechanical testing using a ring pull
system (Healthy: UA = 14, UV = 6; GDM: UA = 8, UV = 3). Stretches
(10-40%) were applied and the resulting force recorded. Afterwards,
samples were decellularized and re-tested. The viscoelastic response
(equilibrium force:peak force; Feq/Fp) and 1st Piola-Kirchhoff stress in the
circumferential direction (P11) were calculated. Significance was evaluated
using a two-way ANOVA with a Tukey post-hoc test (p<0.05). Additional
sample segments underwent histological staining for collagen [Picosirius
Red/Fast Green] and elastin [Verhoeff-Van Gieson].
Results: Intact, cellular UAs and UVs showed no significant differences
in either Feq/Fp or P11 between healthy and GDM samples. Decellularized
UAs showed a ~13% increase of Feq/Fp at 15-40% stretch in GDM as
compared to healthy samples. Similarly, decellularized GDM UAs had
450-700% larger P11 values at all stretches as compared to decellularized
healthy controls, indicative of a stiffer matrix. No qualitative differences
in the collagen or elastin distribution were evident between healthy and
GDM samples.
Conclusion: These data suggest GDM contributes to microstructural
remodeling, possibly through matrix crosslinking, to increase the
mechanical properties of the matrix. While no differences in the mechanical
properties were observed at the tissue scale, cellular mechanotransduction
signaling pathways downstream of the ECM stiffness, such as contractility,
could still translate to disrupted tissue function. Hyperglycemia is known
to cause improper vascular smooth muscle cell contractility, which could
be further exacerbated by matrix stiffening and contribute to the altered
hemodynamics observed in GDM.
S-111
Role of Placental Glucose Metabolism in Steroidogenesis in Healthy
Pregnancies at Term. Muhammad U Sajjad†, Tore Henriksen∗, Guttorm
N Haugen∗, Ingvil K Sørbye∗, Trond M Michelsen∗. Oslo University
Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
Introduction: Estrogen and progesterone maintain normal pregnancy
and intrauterine environment and alterations in their levels are associated
with pregnancy complications such as preterm delivery, preeclampsia, and
gestational diabetes mellitus. The placenta is the main source of estrogen
and progesterone during pregnancy. However, it is not known to which
extent consumption of glucose within the placenta is associated with its
synthesis of steroids.
Methods: We included 41 participants and obtained blood samples from
the maternal radial artery, uterine vein, and umbilical artery and vein by
4-vessel sampling at scheduled cesarean delivery. Uterine artery and
umbilical vein blood flows were measured by Doppler Ultrasound prior
to surgery. Glucose, estrogen and progesterone levels were measured
by the accredited laboratory at Oslo University Hospital. We calculated
the uteroplacental uptake and consumption of glucose and the release of
steroid hormones into the maternal circulation. We also measured lactate
and ketones using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and
calculated the lactate-adjusted uteroplacental glucose consumption and
acetate equivalent uteroplacental ketone consumption.
Results: Mean maternal age was 35.8 years and median gestational age
39.3 weeks. We found a release of estrogen and progesterone from the
placenta into the maternal circulation [57.5 (13.4, 110.0) and 1152.2
(160.8, 1520.1) nmol/L], respectively. The net release of estrogen into
the maternal circulation was positively correlated with the uteroplacental
glucose uptake (ρ = 0.59, p < 0.001) and consumption (ρ = 0.43, p = 0.005)
but not with the fetal glucose uptake (ρ = 0.05, p = 0.78). Similarly, the
net release of progesterone into the maternal circulation was positively
correlated with uteroplacental glucose uptake (ρ = 0.61, p < 0.001) and
consumption (ρ = 0.43, p = 0.005), but not with the fetal glucose uptake
(ρ = 0.08, p = 0.60). The net release of estrogen and progesterone into the
maternal circulation was also positively associated with lactate-adjusted
uteroplacental glucose consumption (ρ = 0. 55, p = 0.001, n = 31; ρ =
0.60, p < 0.001, n = 31, respectively).
Conclusion: Placental release of estrogen and progesterone into the
maternal circulation was strongly correlated with uteroplacental glucose
uptake and consumption, but not with fetal glucose uptake. The association
of the steroid release with a non-glycolytic glucose consumption is
compatible with a use of glucose diverted through the pentose phosphate
pathway.
S-112
Exposure to Male Sex in Twin Gestation and Chronic Inflammation
in the Placenta. Sandhya Chandrasekaran†,1 Alexa Freedman,2 Linda
M Ernst,2 Beth Plunkett,2 Sunitha C Suresh∗.2 1University of Chicago
Medical Center, Chicago, IL, United States; 2Endeavor Health Medical
Group, Evanston, IL, United States.
Introduction: Prior studies suggest increased maternal immune
activation in pregnancies carrying male compared to female fetuses. Twin
pregnancies serve as a controlled model system within which to isolate
effects of fetal sex. We sought to understand the relationship between
increasing male burden in a twin gestation and lesions related to chronic
inflammation (CI) in the placenta.
Methods: This analysis is a retrospective cohort study of patients with
dichorionic diamniotic twin gestations and placental pathology available
248A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
delivering at a single health system between 2017 and 2023. We assessed
lesions of CI, including chronic villitis, chronic deciduitis with plasma
cells, chronic chorioamnionitis, chronic chorionitis, eosinophilic cell
vasculitis, and basal villitis. Our exposure was number of male fetuses
(0 for female/female (0M), 1 for female/male (1M), and 2 for male/male
(2M)). Our primary outcome was prevalence of each individual CI lesion
in at least one twin within the pair. Our secondary outcome was prevalence
of any CI, defined as presence of any lesion. Finally, we compared
prevalence of any CI with 0M compared to 2M. Univariate analysis was
performed using Chi-squared and Kruskal-Wallis test.
Results: A total of 316 di/di twin gestations were evaluated with 81 0M,
144 1M, and 91 2M. Discordant twin pairs (1M) were more likely to have
chronic villitis or basal villitis in comparison to concordant twin pairs.
2M pairs were much more likely to have chronic deciduitis with plasma
cells than 0M or 1M pairs. Any CI was present in 37% in 0M, 40.1% in
1M, and 48.3% in 2M (p = 0.30). Among 0M vs. 2M pairs, there was a
trend toward increased CI in male only vs. female only pairs (OR 1.6,
95% CI [0.98, 2.55]; p=0.06).
Conclusion: Differences were seen in individual placental CI lesions
based on male burden and sex discordance in a twin gestation. Male only
twin gestations had a trend towards any CI in comparison to no male twin
gestations. Further work is needed to understand the influence of male
sex on the maternal immune response.
S-113
Physical Properties of Placenta Villous Tissue in FGR and Low-
Risk Pregnancies Differ by Fetal Sex. Adrienne K Scott†,1 Daniella
Fodera,2 Ulugbek Kamilov,1 Anthony Odibo,3 Kristin Myers,2 Michelle
Oyen∗.4 1Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, United States;
2Columbia University, New York, NY, United States; 3University of Missouri,
Kansas City, Kansas City, MO, United States; 4Wayne State University,
St. Louis, MO, United States.
Introduction: Fetal growth restriction (FGR), affecting 5-10%
of pregnancies, is the leading cause of stillbirth [1]. Fetal growth
depends on oxygen and nutrient transport through the placental villous
microvasculature and is influenced by tissue structure and material
properties, such as stiffness and permeability [2]. Changes in stiffness
(resistance to deformation) and permeability (ease of flow through a
material) indicate alterations in tissue microstructure and pore size,
which in turn affect gas exchange. Since the placenta is fetal tissue, its
efficiency can be influenced by fetal sex [3]. In fact, male fetuses are
20% more likely to face adverse outcomes in complicated pregnancies
than female fetuses [3]. This study aimed to assess how fetal sex impacts
villous physical properties in low-risk and FGR pregnancies, potentially
explaining fetal outcome differences.
Methods: FGR placenta biopsies from births with neonate birthweights
below the 3rd percentile (N = 3 female, 3 male) were analyzed alongside
control patients with low-risk pregnancies matched by fetal sex and
gestation (N = 3 female, 3 male). For each test, tissues were indented to a
fixed depth of 7 μm with 80-100 indentations spaced 200 μm apart. Data
were fit with a poroelastic-viscoelastic model to calculate permeability
and stiffness [4]. A linear mixed effect model with type III ANOVA was
used, with p-values adjusted for multiple comparisons using the Tukey
method (p < 0.05).
Results: Microindentation data revealed that placenta villous tissue from
neonates with birthweights below the third percentile was stiffer than that
from low-risk pregnancies (p<0.01). Control villous tissue had a mean
stiffness of 0.20 kPa (± 0.36), while FGR tissue had a mean stiffness of
0.54 kPa (± 1.04). Permeability did not vary between groups (p=0.23).
However, grouping by fetal sex revealed sex-based differences in stiffness
and permeability. Female control villous tissue was significantly less
permeable than male control tissue (p<0.05). Additionally, female FGR
villous tissue was less stiff than male FGR tissue (p<0.01).
Conclusion: The physical properties of villous tissue changed in FGR
pregnancies and depended on fetal sex. Alterations in stiffness and
permeability suggest changes in tissue pore sizes, which could influence
the transport efficiency of oxygen in the placenta. Sex-dependent changes
in physical properties may explain why rates of adverse fetal outcomes
differ by fetal sex [3].
Work on this project is supported by Wellcome Leap as part of the In
Utero Program.
[1] Nardozza, L.M.+ Arch. Gynecol. Obstet, 2017. [2] Plitman Mayo,
R.+ J. Biomech, 2019. [3] Clifton, V.L., Placenta, 2010. [4] Scott A.K.
+ Placenta, 2024.
S-114
Zika Virus Utilizes Tunneling Nanotubes for In Vivo Placental
Transmission and Fetal Pathogenesis. Rafael Tomoya Michita†,1 Long
B Tran†,1 Steven Bark,1 Deepak Kumar†,1 Joyce Jose,2 Narayanan Anoop,2
Indira Mysorekar∗.1 1Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United
States; 2The Pennsylvania State University, State College, PA, United States.
Introduction: Zika virus (ZIKV) remains a significant public health
concern due to limited preventive measures and treatments. Unlike other
flaviviruses, ZIKV can be vertically transmitted from mother to fetus, but
the mechanisms remain unclear. Interestingly, we found that only ZIKV
(African/Asian lineages) induces tunneling nanotubes (TNTs) in placental
trophoblasts, enabling viral particles, proteins, and RNA to transfer to
neighboring cells. This TNT formation is driven by ZIKV non-structural
protein 1 (NS1), specifically its N-terminal 50 amino acids. A ZIKV mutant
lacking this region (ZIKVΔTNT), though replication-competent, could not
induce TNTs. Studies have established that ZIKV infection of trophoblasts
is restricted in part due to the rapid induction of a robust antiviral response,
particularly type III interferons (IFN-λ). Here, we determined whether
TNT generating capacity has implications for 1) placental IFN response
and 2) in vivo vertical transmission and fetoplacental pathogenesis.
Methods: Primary human trophoblast cells and trophoblast cell lines were
used for testing TNT formation, and IFN multiplex assays were performed
on supernatants from trophoblast cells infected with wild type MR-766,
PRVABC-59, or ZIKVΔTNT. Immunocompetent CD-1 pregnant mouse
models were used, and multiple ZIKV strains were used for infection via
the intrauterine or the sexual transmission route. Dams at gestational days
4.5-10.5 were infected with 1.5x106 PFUs of WT ZIKV, ZIKVΔTNT, or PBS
for determining the impact of TNTs on fetoplacental pathogenesis in vivo.
Results: We found that 1) the ZIKVΔTNT mutant incited a remarkable 30-
60-fold surge in IFN-λ1, 2, and 3 levels in infected trophoblasts relative
to WT strains, despite the trophoblasts having functional RNA-sensing
innate immunity mechanisms. We further showed that the increased IFN-λ
response to ZIKVΔTNT infection was due to the downregulation of IRF1
and NFKB; and 2) the median fetal weight, occipital frontal length, and
crown-to-rump length were significantly increased in dams infected with
ZIKVΔTNT compared with WT ZIKV.
Conclusion: Our findings reveal that TNTs provide a stealth mechanism
for ZIKV to bypass viral entry receptors and impact fetal development.
Without this TNT forming capacity, ZIKV is attenuated in causing
fetal adversity. Moreover, ZIKV uses TNTs to infect other cells and
spread without triggering the IFN lambda response, thereby enhancing
its replication and survival. These findings offer new insights into the
molecular mechanisms of ZIKV infection and transmission. Thus, they
provide a foundation for therapeutic strategies targeting NS1 and TNTs to
limit viral spread and immune evasion, which could be broadly relevant
to other viruses implicated in placental infections.
S-115
Identify SARS-CoV-2 Spike-Protein Mutations in Placentas from
Women Infected with COVID-19 during Pregnancy. Yuping Wang∗,
Jie Xu, Yang Gu, Krista Queen, Xin Gu, Rona Scott, Dani Zoorob, David
Lewis. LSU Health Shreveport, Shreveport, LA, United States.
Introduction: Research on the impact of SARS-CoV-2 mutations,
specifically within the spike protein, has been a focal point in
understanding the virus infection and the consequences in infected tissues
and organs. Several mutations in the spike protein have been identified
in human and animal cells that may affect transmissibility and immune
escape. Pregnant women infected with COVID-19 can experience different
immune responses in the maternal system and the placenta. However, little
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 249A
Saturday Posters
is known about spike protein mutation in the placenta. The purpose of
this study is to investigate if spike protein mutation(s) is/are present in the
placenta from women infected with COVID-19 in pregnancy.
Methods: Placental specimens from women (n=12) infected with
COVID-19 in pregnancy were obtained from the Pathology Achieve at
LSUHS. IRB approval was obtained. RNA was extracted from formalin
fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue sections using Qiagen RNeasy
FFPE Kit. Purified placenta RNA was used to generate libraries for
Illumina sequencing using NEBNext ARTIC SARS-CoV-2 FS Library
Prep Kit with V3 ARTIC primers and VarSkip short v2 spike-in primers
following the manufacturer’s instructions. Libraries were run on an
Illumina MiSeq instrument using MiSeq v2 300-cycle reagent kits.
Consensus sequences were generated using reads that passed filter using
the open source viralrecon pipeline (viralrecon: Introduction (nf-co.
re)). Sequencing data was analyzed and matched with SARS-CoV-2
gene sequences (NC_45512.2). Positive SARS-CoV-2 virus detection
in placental specimens was confirmed by in situ hybridization in all the
12 cases.
Results: Among the 12 cases, mutations of Q954H and N969K in the
heptad repeat 1 of S2 region was found in 10 cases; several mutations on
the receptor-binding motif (RBM) of S1 region were found in 4 cases,
including mutation on N440K, L452R, S477N, T478K, E484A, F486V,
Q498R, N501Y, and Y505H; two mutations in the S1/S2 furin cleavage
site (N679K and P681H) and one mutation in the fusion peptide 1 (D796Y)
region were identified in 2 cases. In addition, several mutations were also
noticed in the regions of open reading frame (ORF) and non-structural
protein (NSP) of SARS-CoV-2 genes, including mutations in the ORF3,
ORF5, ORF9, NSP4, and NSP12 regions.
Conclusion: Several mutations in the spike protein, ORF, and NSP
regions of the SARS-CoV-2 genome were identified in placentas from
women infected with COVID-19 in pregnancy. Whether these mutations
are responsible for SARS-CoV-2 infection in the placental cells, alter
immune response at the placental maternal-fetal interface, or induce
immune escape from antibody neutralization, increase reinfection and/
or decrease vaccine efficiency warrant further investigation.
S-116
Autoimmune Disorders as a Risk Factor for Placenta Accreta
Spectrum. Henri M Rosenberg†, Tess E.K. Cersonsky†, Eugenia Alleva†,
Isabella Band†, Calvin Lambert†, Angela Bianco∗. Icahn School of
Medicine Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, NY, United States.
Introduction: Placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) disorders are on the
rise and associated with poor maternal outcomes, especially when
undiagnosed at the time of delivery. The ability to predict and diagnose
PAS before delivery has been associated with improved outcomes.
Identifying novel clinical factors associated with PAS can further risk
stratify and improve prenatal diagnosis. The objective of this study was
to determine if autoimmune disorders are independently associated with
the development of PAS.
Methods: This was a planned secondary analysis of a retrospective casecontrol
study of patients with and without PAS between 2007-2022 at a
single tertiary academic center. Clinical features were abstracted from
the EMR, using natural language processing techniques. Individual ICD-
10 codes were grouped by disease category. The primary outcome was
histopathologic confirmation of placenta accreta spectrum. Outcomes
were analyzed using univariable and multivariable logistic regression,
adjusting for age, body mass index (BMI), race/ethnicity, insurance
type, use of in vitro fertilization (IVF), history of prior cesarean delivery
(CD), prior myomectomy, prior dilation and curettage (D&C) smoking,
and autoimmune disorders.
Results: 52,227 patients were included, of which 125 (0.23%) had PAS.
PAS occurred more frequently with advanced maternal age (p<0.001),
history of CD (p<0.001), placenta previa, (p<0.001), IVF (p<0.001), prior
myomectomy (p<0.001), prior D&C (p<0.001). There was a significant
difference in the prevalence of autoimmune disorders in those who
developed PAS (21.6% vs. 12.8% p=0.003); however, after multivariable
analysis controlling for known major risk factors of PAS, autoimmune
disorders were not an independent risk factor (aOR 2.27, 95% Cl 1.36-
3.68). On sub-analysis, Connective Tissue disorders were independently
associated with PAS (aOR 4.34, 95% Cl 1.31-10.6).
Conclusion: While the prevalence of autoimmune disorders were
increased in patients with PAS, autoimmune disorders were not an
independent risk factor for the development of PAS in this cohort.
However, connective tissue disorders were an independent risk factor for
PAS development. Prospective larger studies identifying novel clinical
risk factors are necessary for improved antenatal detection of PAS.
Additionally, further investigation into the association of Connective
Tissue disorders and abnormal placentation are warranted and may provide
further insight into the pathogenesis of PAS.
S-117
Hofbauer Cells Appear Elevated in Placentas from In Vitro
Fertilization Pregnancies. Rachel Watkin, Benjamin Crumley, Morgan
Wasickanin, Katherine Free, Lydia Bettridge, Hillary Kinsman, Jennifer
Venturino, Bruce Pier, Nicholas Ieronimakis∗. Madigan Army Medical
Center, Tacoma, WA, United States.
Introduction: Pregnancies initiated by in vitro fertilization (IVF) are at
high risk for complications, in particular gestational hypertension and
preeclampsia. Such complications are believed to arise from placental
immunological dysfunction, yet few studies have examined human
immune cells within placentas from IVF pregnancies. Placental immune
and inflammation responses are primarily mediated by Hofbauer cells
(endogenous macrophages) that are abundant within the intervillous. Other
immune cell types such as maternal derived leukocytes and neutrophils
may also reside within placental tissue and play a role in pregnancy
homeostasis and disease. We hypothesize that the increased risk for
complications with IVF pregnancies is related to alterations in placental
immune cells and aimed to quantify if the number of immune cells differs
in placentas from IVF pregnancies.
Methods: Formalin fixed placental sections from term natural and IVF
deliveries were immunostained for markers of Hofbauer cells (CD163),
leukocytes (CD45), and neutrophils (CD15). Staining’s were across n=15-
16 normal and n=9-13 IVF placentas using clinically validated antibodies
and reagents on a Leica Bond-Max then scanned using a Leica automated
microscope system. Cells that stained positive for each respective marker
were counted within 1.2mm2 regions of intervillous and normalized to
the tissue area, excluding the maternal and vascular spaces to quantify
tissue resident immune cells.
Results: The mean number of Hofbauer cells per 1mm2 intervillous tissue
and ± standard deviation in natural vs. IVF was 473 ±155 and 602 ±158
respectively. This difference is statistically significant, with a p<0.05
by student’s t-test. In contrast, there was no difference in the number of
leukocytes (417 ±108 vs. 380 ±161) and neutrophils (25 ±22 vs. 20 ±14)
between natural vs. IVF samples.
Conclusion: The density of Hofbauer cells is greater in term placentas
from IVF pregnancies, though no significant differences are noted in
the density of leukocytes and neutrophils within the intervillous tissue.
Increases in the number of Hofbauer cells have been noted in diseased
placentas from non-IVF pregnancies (for example with gestational
diabetes), suggesting that the heightened risk for complications among
IVF pregnancies may relate to alterations of the principle immune cell
population of the placenta. In contrast, similarities in leukocytes and
neutrophils suggest that circulating maternal cells may not be a source
of placental immune variability in IVF pregnancies. Further research is
warranted towards understanding the relationship of placental Hofbauer
cells and other placental immune cells with pregnancy complications that
are common with IVF.
250A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
S-118
PHLDA2-Mediated Ferroptosis Contributes to Placenta Development.
Ayelen Moreno Irusta∗,1 Khursheed Iqbal∗,1 Keisuke Kozai∗,1 Esteban
M Dominguez†,1 Michael J Soares∗.2 1Institute for Reproductive and
Developmental Sciences, Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine,
University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States;
2Institute for Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Department
of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, & Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, University of Kansas Medical Center; Center for Perinatal
Research, Children’s Mercy Research Institute, Kansas City, KS, United
States.
Introduction: Hemochorial placentation occurs in many mammalian
species and is critical for the establishment of pregnancy. Specialized
trophoblast cells interacting with the uterine vasculature modify the
maternal environment, whereas trophoblast cells interacting with the fetal
vasculature have a specialized barrier function in regulating the entry of
solutes into the fetus. The rat and human each possess a uterine-placental
interface (UPI) that is characterized by deep intrauterine infiltration
of trophoblast cells. Imprinted genes, including pleckstrin homology
like domain family A member 2 (PHLDA2), have been implicated in
placenta development. We examined PHLDA2 as a potential regulator
of trophoblast cell fate and hemochorial placentation.
Methods: The role of PHLDA2 in trophoblast cell differentiation was
assessed in vitro, with human and rat trophoblast stem (TS) cells, and in
vivo using the rat. PHLDA2 expression was assessed in human placentas
and rat placentation sites using in-situ hybridization. PHLDA2 expression
was manipulated in vitro using lentiviral delivered short hairpin RNA
(shRNA) gene silencing and in vivo using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing.
TS cells were examined following induction of ferroptosis. Wild type
and PHLDA2 mutant placentation sites were examined histologically,
including assessment of lipid peroxidation and indices cell death, and
through biochemical and molecular analyses.
Results: PHLDA2 transcripts were prominently expressed in the
proximal region of the extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cell column of
the human placenta and in trophoblast progenitor cells at the base of
the rat ectoplacental cone (EPC), a cellular compartment possessing
elevated lipid peroxides and cell death. As gestation advanced, Phlda2
was expressed within the labyrinth zone of the rat placenta. Conceptuses
inheriting a maternal null Phlda2 allele exhibited placentomegaly
characterized by an expanded junctional zone, abnormal infiltration of
invasive trophoblast cells into the UPI, and a dysregulated transcriptome.
PHLDA2 exhibited reciprocal patterns of expression in differentiating in
human and rat TS cells and increased sensitivity to ferroptosis-induced
trophoblast cell death.
Conclusion: PHLDA2-mediated ferroptosis appears to play a role
in placental development, contributing to its overall function. While
more research is needed to fully understand the mechanisms involved,
this pathway might offer valuable insights into placental biology.
[Supported by Lalor Foundation postdoctoral fellowships (AMI, EMD),
K99HD115834 (AMI), HD020676, HD105734, HD112559, and the
Sosland Foundation]
S-119
Identifying the Role of SP6 in Self-Renewal and Differentiation
of Human Trophoblast Stem Cells. Joonhyuk Choi†, Mijeong Kim,
Jonghwan Kim∗. University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, United States.
Introduction: Although transient, placenta is one of the most crucial
organs in fetal development. However, we still do not understand the
precise mechanisms underlying the cell fate decisions of trophoblast
lineage cells. It is well known that key transcription factors are what
governs these processes. Recently, an in vitro model system has been
established which robustly mimics the in vivo placenta cells. In this
study, using this in vitro model system, we incorporated enhancer and
expression data to hypothesize that the transcription factor SP6 is crucial
in maintaining stemness and differentiation potential of human trophoblast
stem cells (TSC).
Methods: To understand the role of SP6 in trophoblast lineage cells, TSC
and its differentiation cell lines were knocked down (KD) of SP6 with
short hairpin RNA (shRNA) and compared with non-target shRNA treated
control samples. TSC were treated with shRNA with lenti-viral factors and
incubated for 18 hr. After 18 hr, the media was replaced with TSC media
containing puromycin for selection for an additional 54 hr. After a total
of 72 hours of shRNA treatment, the cell was collected and analyzed with
RNA sequencing. shRNA was also treated in day 0 and 1 of differentiation
in both extravillous trophoblast cells (EVT) and syncytiotrophoblast cells
(ST) which are trophoblast lineage cells. The cells were then collected at
different time points for analysis. ChIP sequencing of SP6 and enhancers
were also conducted at different time points to understand dynamic binding
pattern changes of SP6 throughout TSC differentiation.
Results: Depletion of SP6 in TSC significantly decreased marker gene
expression of TSC with altered morphology phenotype. The proliferation
rate was decreased to half-fold upon depletion and GSEA analysis also
shows loss of stemness maintenance in KD samples. EVT and ST, which
are differentiated cell lineages, weren’t able to develop properly upon
KD morphologically with downregulated marker gene expression. The
functional properties were also damaged as well. EVT, which functions
to invade into the maternal tissue and anchors the fetus, lost its ability
to invade into the Matrigel scaffold upon invasion assay. ST, which is
the major hormone secreting cell type of the placenta, reduced hormone
secretion to half-fold upon KD. Also, the biological processes associated
in the KD samples also shows that representative functions of TSC lineage
cells are damaged upon SP6 KD.
Conclusion: Loss of SP6 alters the phenotype, expression profiles, and
cellular functions of all three trophoblast lineage cells. Therefore, we
think that SP6 is a key transcription factor that maintains the self-renewal
function and differentiation potential of TSCs.
S-120
Generation of Term Trophoblast Organoids and Proliferative 2D
Trophoblast for the Investigation of Syncytiotrophoblast Function.
Alice Hawkins†,1 Paschalia Pantazi,1 Liheng Yang,2 Carolyn B Coyne,2
Jose M Lemme-Dumit,3 Vladimir Bokun†,1 Marcela Pasetti,3 Sara Barnett,1
Fiona J Culley,1 Beth Holder∗.1 1Imperial College London, London, United
Kingdom; 2Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC, United
States; 3University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, United States.
Introduction: Research on placental development and function has been
enhanced by recent advances in the derivation of trophoblast stem cells
and organoid models. These cells can proliferate long-term in culture and
can also be induced to differentiate to recapitulate trophoblast cell types,
including extravillous trophoblasts and syncytiotrophoblast. Initially,
trophoblast stem cells were derived from early trimester tissue samples.
However, more recently, advances in culturing trophoblast organoids
from term placenta have been made. We sought to develop methods to
derive 2D proliferative cytotrophoblasts from term placenta by employing
similar techniques.
Methods: Cytotrophoblasts were harvested from term placentae via
sequential enzymatic digestion and density gradient separation and then
banked in liquid nitrogen. Trophoblast organoids and 2D cytotrophoblast
cultures were obtained through culture in specialized organoid media.
Organoids and cells were characterized by immunostaining and qPCR for
cytokeratin-7, E-cadherin, beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (β-hCG)
and stemness markers. Trophoblasts were induced to differentiate into
syncytiotrophoblast through the addition of forskolin. Cells were cultured
on transwells, barrier function evaluated by trans-epithelial electrical
resistance (TEER).
Results: We have established a technique to derive organoids and
proliferative trophoblast lines (more than 10 passages) from cryopreserved
term cytotrophoblasts for the investigation of syncytiotrophoblast
function. Immunostaining and qPCR identified characteristic trophoblast
markers, including cytokeratin-7, E-cadherin, and beta-human chorionic
gonadotropin (β-hCG), and the presence of ki67 proliferative cells.
Forskolin induced an increase in the expression of β-hCG and syncytin
1 and loss of ki67. Demarcation of the cell membranes by E-cadherin
immunostaining demonstrated fusion of the trophoblasts into syncytia.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 251A
Saturday Posters
TEER measurements of syncitialized trophoblasts on transwells increased
over time, indicating the formation of a tight barrier and reduced
permeability
Conclusion: This method uses cryopreserved cytotrophoblasts from
term placenta to derive both organoids and proliferative trophoblasts
which can be differentiated to syncytiotrophoblast, providing a platform
to study placental function. With access to pregnancy outcome data from
term sources, these cells have the potential to model both healthy and
pathological pregnancies. Furthermore, the use of term tissue may reach
a broader research community and alleviate ethical concerns with using
early trimester tissue.
S-121
Baseline Quantitative Ultrasound Characterization of Rat Placenta.
Farah Deeba,1 Liliya M. Yamaleyeva.2 1University of North Carolina at
Charlotte, Charlotte, NC, United States; 2Wake Forest University School
of Medicine, Winston_Salem, NC, United States.
Introduction: Quantitative Ultrasound (QUS) is a non-invasive imaging
modality that analyzes ultrasound radio-frequency data to compute
tissue acoustic properties. QUS parameters longitudinally obtained from
the placenta can be used as diagnostic tools for preeclampsia (PE). We
hypothesize that QUS can detect microstructural changes in the placenta
in PE earlier than the manifestation of clinical signs: new onset of
hypertension, proteinuria, or other end-organ damage. We previously
demonstrated that QUS parameters obtained from ex vivo human placenta
can distinguish between healthy and PE-affected pregnancies. Here, we
investigate the feasibility of QUS imaging of rat placenta in utero and
establish baseline QUS characteristics using a Sprague-Dawley rat as a
model of normal pregnancy.
Methods: Ultrasound radiofrequency data were collected from the whole
rat placenta in utero at late gestation (day 20) using two linear array probes:
(i) UHF29x (15-29 MHz bandwidth), and (ii) UHF46x (20-46 MHz
bandwidth), using a Vevo F2 ultrasound system (FUJIFILM VisualSonics,
Toronto, ON, Canada). A total of 100 frames were collected for each scan.
27 mm and 20 mm depth values were set for UHF29x and UHF46x probes,
respectively. Ultrasound data were collected from calibration phantoms
with known acoustic properties. Our previously developed QUS algorithm
was applied to compute QUS parameters: attenuation coefficient estimate
(ACE) and Backscatter Coefficient (BSC). ACE measures the ultrasound
energy loss with depth due to scattering and absorption. BSC measures
the ultrasound intensity scattered in the backward direction.
Results: We first validated the accuracy and precision of QUS parameters
in phantom with known ACE and BSC values. Using a low-frequency
probe (UHF29x), we obtained an ACE error of 11.41% (standard deviation
of 4.90%) and a BSC error of 14.76% (standard deviation of 12.78%).
Using a high-frequency probe (UHF46x), the ACE error was 11.18%
(standard deviation of 3.2%) and the BSC error was 19.52% (standard
deviation of 10.24%). For rat placenta, we obtained ACE measures of
0.56 dB/cm/MHz and 1.17 dB/cm/MHz, using the UHF29x and UHF46x
probes, respectively. The BSC measures were -33.81 dB and -21.54 dB
for UHF29x and UHF46x probes, respectively.
Conclusion: The accuracy and precision for QUS measures in the
phantom were in agreement with state-of-the-art QUS estimation quality.
The ACE and BSC in rat placenta obtained for a low-frequency probe
(UHF29x) were within the range of our previous findings for human
placenta ex vivo. The ACE and BSC measures obtained using a highfrequency
probe (UHF46x) were significantly higher. This indicates that
placenta QUS parameters are frequency dependent. Future studies will
analyze the frequency dependence of QUS in the placentas during healthy
and PE-affected pregnancies.
S-122
Demographic and Clinical Factors Associated with Accurate Prenatal
Detection of Placenta Accreta Spectrum. Khadija Alshowaikh†, Colleen
Sinnott†, Jennifer Culhane, Lisbet Lundsberg, Caitlin Patridge, Mert Ozan
Bahtiyar, Sonya Abdel-Razeq, Olga Grechukhina. Yale School of Medicine,
New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) significantly impacts
maternal and neonatal outcomes, yet prenatal diagnosis remains
challenging. This study examines if demographic and clinical factors
influence the accuracy of prenatal diagnosis of PAS.
Methods: All cases at a single academic institution with an ICD-10
code for PAS were reviewed (n=775). Clinically confirmed PAS cases
requiring hysterectomy and those with difficult placental removal requiring
additional surgical management were included. Demographic and clinical
data were obtained from the electronic medical record. Four obstetricians
classified cases by prenatal suspicion (low aka false negative or high aka
true positive diagnosis), and PAS a priori risk (low or high). High a priori
risk was defined as >2 prior uterine surgeries, >1 prior uterine surgery
and placenta previa or prior pregnancy with PAS. Associations between
patient characteristics, a priori risk, and prenatal diagnostic accuracy
were evaluated with Χ2 tests, with a sub-analysis of patients requiring
hysterectomy (cHyst).
Results: 182 cases of PAS were identified;103 (56%) required cHyst.
High prenatal suspicion for PAS was present in 95/182 (52%) cases and
in 73/103 (70.1%) in cHyst cases. Multiparity (88.3%, p 0.01), high a
priori risk (86.3%, p <0.0001), and placenta previa (82.1%, p <0.0001)
were associated with high PAS suspicion. Only 13.7% of patients with low
a priori risk were deemed to have high suspicion for PAS. Non-English
speakers were more likely to have low prenatal PAS suspicion, with
26.7% of non-English speakers in the hysterectomy subset inaccurately
classified as low suspicion compared to only 9.6% of English speakers
(p 0.03). Other factors did not affect PAS suspicion.
Conclusion: High a priori risk and placenta previa were strongly
associated with correct prenatal prediction of PAS while low a priori risk
patients often had missed diagnoses. Other demographic factors did not
significantly affect prenatal diagnostic accuracy. Non-English speakers
were more likely to have missed PAS diagnosis prenatally, possibly
due estimation of a priori risk upon history-gathering. New tools to aid
sonographic assessment for PAS are needed.
S-123
Sex Dependent Impact of Prenatal Toxic Metal Exposures on Placental
Acute Inflammation. Norman Chamusah†,1 Dawn Misra∗,1 Carrie
Salafia∗.2 1Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, United States;
2Placental Analytics LLC, New Rochelle, NY, United States.
Introduction: Besides the key role of providing nutrients, oxygen,
and hormones to growing fetus, one main function of the placenta is to
protect fetus from environmental stressors, including chemical exposures.
Although effects of metal toxins on pathology and functioning of the
placenta have not been widely reported, they may provide insights into
how metal exposures lead to adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes. The
effect of these toxic exposures on the intrauterine environment as seen in
the placenta is the focus this study. Objective: To determine how maternal
proximity to toxic waste sites, a proxy for exposure to toxic waste metals
and pollutants, impacts acute placenta inflammation (AI) and whether sex
moderates this relationship.
Methods: In a New York City hospital with mandated placental
examination of an ethnically, and social diverse population, 2235 term
singleton livebirths born from January 2010 to August 2016 had pathology
data extracted at birth. Maternal residence distance from metal toxic
waste sites during the pregnancy was selected as a proxy of exposure to
toxic metals. Publicly available maps of toxic waste sites in Brooklyn
were used to calculate the distance from home to nearest waste site. The
four classes of waste sites are: spillage of less than 100-gallon, spillage
greater than 100-gallon, hazardous spillage, and remediated waste site. AI
will be treated as dichotomous outcomes in all analyses (any vs. none).
Maternal and fetal acute inflammation (MAIR, FAIR) was scored in
extraplacental membranes and chorionic plate (maternal) and in umbilical
252A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
cord and chorionic plate vessel (fetal). We implemented multiple logistic
regression while adjusting for maternal age, race, autoimmune infection
during pregnancy, and marital status. Odd ratios (ORs) were derived from
the equation OR=exp (log odds).
Results: No statistically significant associations were seen between
prevalence of FAIR and distance from nearest toxic waste site among
placentas from male (OR= 0.63, p=0.72) or female infants (OR=0.96 and,
p=0.81). Similarly, no associations were seen for MAIR with distance to
toxic waste sites but the estimates for male (OR=0.57, p=0.66) and female
(OR=1.41, p=0.59) births were in the opposite direction from one another.
Conclusion: Proximity to toxic waste sites during pregnancy was not
significantly associated with acute fetal or maternal placental inflammation
but this association varied between male and female infants. It might be
the case that male and female placenta and fetuses do not have identical
responses to intrauterine stressors.
S-124
Fkbp5 Depletion Protects Against Maternal Stress-Induced Gestational
Hypertension in Mice. Busra Cetinkaya-Un†, Xiaofang Guo, Asli Ozmen,
Burak Un, Ozlem Guzeloglu-Kayisli, Charles J Lockwood, Umit Kayisli∗.
University of South Florida Morsani College of Medicine, Tampa, FL,
United States.
Introduction: Globally, 5 to 8% of pregnancies result in gestational
hypertension, which is associated with maternal morbidity, mortality,
fetal growth restriction and premature delivery. It is defined as a systolic
blood pressure (SBP) of ≥140 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure
(DBP) of ≥90 mmHg, occurring >20 gestation weeks without proteinuria
in previously normotensive women. Stress, a risk factor for hypertension,
increases levels of FKBP51, which inhibits glucocorticoid receptor
activity, thereby impairing stress responses. We hypothesize that maternal
stress induces gestational hypertension and that Fkbp5 depletion protects
against this condition.
Methods: In 7-week-old non-pregnant wild-type (WT, n=8) and Fkbp5
knockout (KO, n=8) female mice, radiotelemetry transmitters were
implanted in the left carotid artery and the aortic arch to monitor blood
pressure. After a 10-day recovery, SBP and DBP were recorded for
5 days to establish non-pregnancy baselines. Mice were then mated,
and pregnancy was confirmed by a vaginal plug presence, designating
gestational day (E) 0. From E8 to E17, mice underwent restraint stress
for 1hx3/day. SBP and DBP were recorded from E5 to E7 for pregnancy
baselines, as well as during restraint stress and one hour after the 3rd stress
session. Blood and urine samples were collected on E17 to measure serum
sFlt1 and urine total protein levels by ELISA and a protein quantification
kit, respectively. A t-test was used for comparison, with P<0.05 considered
significant.
Results: In the non-pregnant state, baseline blood pressures in WT vs. KO
mice were measured as SBP: 117±1.0 vs.113±0.6 mmHg and DBP:89±1.1
vs. 83±0.2, with both significantly higher in WT mice (P<0.005). During
pregnancy from E5 to E7, unstressed WT mice had significantly elevated
BPs (SBP: 131±5.3, and DBP: 102±6.1, P<0.05) which trended lower
in unstressed KO mice (SBP: 118±2.2, and DBP: 91±1.3) with SBP
significantly higher WT vs. KO mice (P<0.05). Under restraint stress,
WT mice and KO mice displayed elevated BPs, which are significantly
higher in WT vs. KO mice (SBP: 143±4.9 vs. 126±2.1, DBP: 112±6.0 vs.
97±2.5, P≤0.005) from E8 to E17. These significantly higher BP levels
persisted in WT vs. KO mice (SBP: 131±6.1 vs. 116±2.1, and DBP:
103±7.3 vs. 89±1.8; P≤0.05) one hour after the 3rd stress. However, On
E17, serum sFlt1 and urinary protein levels were similar between groups,
indicating that this condition resembles gestational hypertension rather
than preeclampsia.
Conclusion: Our results show that pregnancy leads to significant
BP increases, which are worsened by maternal restraint stress in WT
mice, creating a gestational hypertension-like condition. In contrast,
Fkbp5 depletion protects against these pregnancy and stress-induced
BP increases, indicating FKBP51 as a promising target for preventing
gestational hypertension.
S-125
Genetic Co-Occurrence Networks Identify Polymorphisms
within Ontologies Highly Associated with Preeclampsia. Andreea
Obersterescu†, Brian J Cox∗. University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
Introduction: Polygenic diseases require the co-occurrence of multiple
risk variants to initiate a pathology. An example is preeclampsia, a
hypertensive disease of pregnancy with no known cure or therapy other
than the often-preterm delivery of the neonate and placenta. Preeclampsia
is challenging to predict due to symptomatic and outcome heterogeneity.
Transcriptomic and genetic analysis suggests that this is a multi-syndromic
and multigenic disease. Previous research applications of traditional
genome-wide association methods to preeclampsia identified only a few
alleles with marginal differences between cases and controls. We seek
to identify genetic networks and complex concurring alleles related to
the pathophysiology of preeclampsia as potential avenues of therapeutic
investigation and early genetic testing.
Methods: We created a novel systems biology-based method that
identifies pairs of co-occurring single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
associated with a trait or disease. The co-occurring pairs are assembled
into higher-order associations using network graphs, which are assessed
for topological properties of degree and connectivity. We validated our
method using simulation modelling and tested it against maternal genetic
data of a previously assessed preeclampsia cohort.
Results: Model validation using simulated data identified that bonafide
concurring SNPs form a central highly connected and high-degree hub,
while spurious background concurrence was disconnected with a low
degree. Application to a previously published UK cohort identified graphs
with a similar topology to simulated data. The genetic co-occurrence
network identified SNPs in or near genes with ontological enrichment
for VEGF, immunological and hormonal pathways, and other known
physiological disruptions in preeclampsia. Genetic cooccurrence networks
enriched protein interaction networks.
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that preeclampsia is caused by
relatively common alleles (>5% frequency) accumulating in unfavourable
combinations within a common pathway. Our findings hold promise for
pre-pregnancy testing for the genetic risk of preeclampsia. However, these
findings need to be replicated in more diverse cohorts. Open questions
remain on how fetal genetics and environmental variables may agonize
or antagonize the risk of preeclampsia. Continued development of this
statistical model is required to create a proper genome-wide method.
S-126
SMARCE1 Differential Expression in Preeclampsia Subtypes with
Early and Late Onset: Implications for Their Etiopathogenesis?
Shivani Shivani,1 Tooba Tahreem Khan,1 Sukanya Sukanya,1 Jessy J
P,1 Amal Razik,1 Pallavi Kshetrapal,2 Neerja Bhatla,3 Renu Dhingra.1
1Department of Anatomy, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New
Delhi, India; 2Translational Health Science and Technology Institute
(THSTI), Faridabad, India; 3Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
Introduction: Preeclampsia is a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy
impacts an estimated 2-15% of pregnancies globally, incurs a significant
effect on maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality including
complications such as premature fetal birth and chronic cardiovascular
disease in mothers. Impaired trophoblast invasion leading to defect
in vascular remodelling, placental mal-perfusion ending up in antiangiogenic
response, systematic inflammation, endothelial damage,
peripheral vasoconstriction, oxidative stress are the factors contributing
to the two subtypes of preeclampsia (early and late) especially the early
onset preeclampsia. SMARCE1, a chromatin modulator in the SWI/SNF
complex, has a pro-oncogenic role in gastric cancer and its role in cell
proliferation, migration and invasion has been reported but its status in
pregnancy remains unstudied. There are no reports on the expression of
SMARCE1 in patients of preeclampsia. Hence, this study aims to correlate
its association in pregnancy complications like preeclampsia.
Methods: Circulating levels of SMARCE1 was measured by ELISA in
serum samples collected from early and late onset preeclamptic (n=40)
and their gestational age-matched normotensive, non proteinuric healthy
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 253A
Saturday Posters
controls (n=40) from the Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology,
AIIMS, after taking ethical clearance. Placentae from recruited early and
late onset preeclamptic (EOPE and LOPE respectively) (n=30) patients
and their gestational age matched normotensive, non-proteinuric healthy
controls (n=30) were collected and SMARCE1 expression was assessed
by immunohistochemistry, western blot and qRT PCR.
Results: Reduced expression of SMARCE1 in both early and late onset
preeclampsia was seen as compared to controls. However, between the
two subtypes, the LOPE samples showed lesser expression as compared
to EOPE, though not significant.
Conclusion: The differential SMARCE1 expression observed in two
subtypes of preeclampsia could point towards their different aetiologies.
Hence, future studies should target the role of SMARCE1 in various
biological processes associated with placentation.
S-127
Innovative Approach to Preeclampsia Treatment: Evaluating the
Efficacy of Pasteurized Akkermansia Muciniphila on Endothelial
Function and Metabolic Homeostasis. Linyu Peng†, Liping Huang∗.
Southern Medical University Nanfang Hospital, Guangzhou, China.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is a serious complication of pregnancy
linked to endothelial dysfunction and an imbalance in the gut microbiota .
While Akkermansia muciniphila (AKK) has shown promise in alleviating
PE symptoms, the use of live bacteria raises safety concerns. This study
explored the potential of pasteurized A. muciniphila (pAKK) as a safer
alternative for treating PE, focusing on its effects on endothelial function
and metabolic regulation.
Methods: A PE mouse model was induced via the nitric oxide synthase
inhibitor L-NAME, followed by treatment with either pAKK or live AKK.
Fecal metabolomic profiling was performed via liquid chromatographytandem
mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), and in vivo and in vitro
experiments were used to assess the effects of pAKK on endothelial
function and metabolic pathways.
Results: pAKK exhibited therapeutic effects comparable to those of
live AKK in improving L-NAME-induced PE-like phenotypes in mice,
including enhanced gut barrier function and reduced endotoxemia.
pAKK also promoted placental angiogenesis by restoring endothelial
nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activity and nitric oxide (NO) production.
In vitro experiments further confirmed that pAKK alleviated L-NAMEinduced
NO reduction and endothelial dysfunction in human umbilical
vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Metabolomic analysis revealed that
both pAKK and live AKK reversed metabolic disturbances in PE by
modulating key metabolites and pathways related to unsaturated fatty
acid biosynthesis, folate and linoleic acid metabolism.
Conclusion: As a postbiotic, pAKK offers a safer alternative to live
AKK for treating PE, demonstrating similar efficacy by improving gut
barrier function, restoring endothelial function, and regulating metabolic
dysregulation.These findings highlight the potential clinical value of
pAKK in managing PE.
S-128
Evaluation of Inflammatory Markers Throughout Pregnancy
Reveals Diverging Patterns for Individuals Who Ultimately Develop
Preeclampsia. Danielle Martin†, Zimeng Gao†, Richard Miller, Catherine
Yount, Kristin Scheible, Emily Barrett, Jessica Brunner, Tom O’Connor,
Stefanie Hollenbach∗. University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, United States.
Introduction: A leading cause of morbidity and mortality in pregnancy,
preeclampsia continues to affect 5-10% of pregnancies worldwide.
Previous studies have described elevations in inflammatory markers
such as IL-6, IL-8, TNFα, and CRP in the setting of preeclampsia.
Studies observed increased inflammatory markers in the second and third
trimesters but few have evaluated the first trimester. The objective of this
study is to evaluate the changes in maternal serum inflammatory markers
throughout each trimester of pregnancy.
Methods: Using data from a prospective cohort study which collected
biomarkers throughout pregnancy, we examined associations between
inflammatory marker levels across each trimester comparing patients who
developed preeclampsia and those who did not. Student’s T and Mann-
Whitney U tests were applied to compare inflammatory marker levels
informed by preeclampsia status with Bonferroni adjustments applied.
Serum analyte discrimination for preeclampsia diagnosis was quantified
with ROC curve analysis.
Results: Of the 326 patients, 6% (n=20) developed preeclampsia and
the remaining did not (n=306). 11 inflammatory marker (IL2, IL6, IL7,
IL8, IL10, IL1β, TNFα, CRP, TGFβ, PLGF, leptin) levels were assessed
longitudinally. There were no significant differences between patients with
and without preeclampsia in the first trimester. However, by the second
and third trimester (mean gestational age 21 ± 1.8 and 31 ± 2.0 weeks
respectively), leptin levels were significantly higher in the preeclampsia
cohort. In the third trimester, PLGF was significantly lower. Diagnostic
discrimination related to these values demonstrated moderate test
performance in the second trimester, increasing performance in the third
trimester, with the best from the third trimester ratio of leptin to PLGF.
Conclusion: This analysis provides opportunity to observe evolution of
inflammatory markers throughout pregnancy in individuals who develop
preeclampsia. These data demonstrated no significant differences in
inflammatory markers in the first trimester but increasingly significant
elevations in leptin by the second trimester and lower PLGF levels by the
third trimester. While lesser studied, leptin and PLGF may be important
within the pathogenesis of preeclampsia. These data reveal potential
avenues to develop diagnostic serum testing or contribute to disease
prediction strategies in the later half of pregnancy.
S-129
Increased CD45RA Expression on CD8⁺ T Cells in Preeclampsia:
Insights Across Trimester Progression. Tina Yi Jin Hsieh†,1 Audrey
Mutoni,2 Eleanor Schonberg,2 Krishna Shah,2 Bridget Wixted,2 Emily
Stonestreet,2 Anna Modest,2 Ai-ris Y Collier∗.2 1Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA, United States; 2Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston,
MA, United States.
Introduction: CD45RA is a key marker for distinguishing CD8+ T
cell subsets, including naive and TEMRA (T effector memory cells reexpressing
CD45RA) populations. These cells are crucial for immune
surveillance and pathogen response. While CD8+ T cell subset distribution
can change in various conditions, their role in pregnancy-related disorders
like preeclampsia is not well understood. This study investigates CD45RA
expression on CD8+ T cells in preeclampsia patients compared to healthy
pregnant controls across different gestational stages.
Methods: Maternal peripheral blood samples from participants with
gestational hypertension (gHTN), preeclampsia (PEC), and normotensive
controls were collected at during trimester 2 (T2), 3 (T3), and at delivery
from a single tertiary care hospital. Viable peripheral blood mononuclear
cells from maternal blood were isolated and T lymphocyte subsets were
assessed via flow cytometry, following staining with a panel of 14
biomarkers. A t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (tSNE)
analysis of 13 phenotypic markers was conducted to identify distinct
clustering patterns in the gHTN+PEC group compared to normotensive
controls. The proportion of CD45RA⁺/CD8⁺ T cells were statistically
compared between groups using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test.
Results: The study analyzed a total of 20 participants, comprising 10
from the second trimester (T2), 5 from the third trimester (T3), and 5
at delivery, tSNE analysis of 13 phenotypic markers was conducted to
identify distinct clustering patterns in the gHTN+PEC group compared
to normotensive control. For second trimester samples, the expression
levels of CD45RA on CD8⁺ T cells were median = 79.75% (IQR = 9.95,
n = 4) for the control group and median = 85.10% (IQR = 3.65, n = 6)
for the PEC group. In the third trimester, the expression levels were
median = 75.9% (IQR = 10.0, n = 3) for the control group and 89.95%
(IQR = 2.75, n = 2) for the PEC group. For delivery samples, CD45RA
expression levels on CD8⁺ T cells were 89.9% for the control group and
92.15% (IQR = 4.57, n = 4) for the PEC group. Statistical comparison
using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test did not reach significance, likely due
to the small sample size.
Conclusion: Our results suggest a tendency towards higher CD45RA
expression on CD8+ T cells in preeclampsia compared to healthy controls
that precedes clinical disease and delivery. This difference is detectable
254A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
in the T2 and becomes more pronounced in T3. Further evaluation of the
longitudinal functional and transcriptional changes in CD45RA+ CD8+
T cells in pregnancy are needed.
S-130
Text Phrase-Mining in Identifying and Classifying Extracellular
Matrix Protein Patterns Across Preeclampsia and Similar Pathologies.
Jacqueline Urdang,1 Stephanie Masters,2 Nneoma Edokobi,3 Chitra
Mukherjee,4 Arnib Quazi,4 David A Liem,4 Monica Ahrens,1 Xuan Wang,5
Megan Whitham.2 1Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine, Roanoke,
VA, United States; 2Carilion Clinic, Roanoke, VA, United States; 3Novant
Health, Wilmington, NC, United States; 4UC Davis, Davis, CA, United
States; 5Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, VA, United States.
Introduction: Hypertensive and cardiovascular disorders are among
the most commonly occurring complications of pregnancy. Research in
the Obstetrics field is currently accumulating data at an unprecedented
rate and outpacing that at which manual review can occur. To synthesize
and understand relationships from this research, artificial intelligence
and text phrase-mining may be used as novel technologies capable of
synthesizing massive amounts of data. To this point, these technologies
have been underutilized in the Obstetrics field. This study aims to
demonstrate that text phrase-mining and natural language processing
can annotate huge quantities of obstetrics textual data for discovery and
evaluation of protein-disease interactions involved in the preeclampsia
pathway and diseases with overlapping maternal phenotypic presentations
during pregnancy: preeclampsia, HELLP syndrome, acute fatty liver of
pregnancy, thrombotic angiopathies, antiphospholipid syndrome, and
systemic lupus erythematosus.
Methods: The six diseases with overlapping phenotypes were chosen
and matched with Medical Subject Headings. A textual corpus was
developed from abstracts matched to these search terms through PubMed.
44 proteins or genes were identified with relationship to the disease
states of interest. Context-Aware Semantic Online Analytical Processing
was performed, with unique scores for each protein-disease state pair.
Components of the score were calculated and weighted for distinctness,
integrity, and popularity. Statistical analyses were conducted using R,
creating descriptive and visual data for the examination of protein-disease
relationships.
Results: 44 distinct proteins with known associations to cardiovascular
disease and preeclampsia pathways were identified from abstracts among
the 6 disease states. Proteins shared across the greatest number of disease
states were implicated in: 1) angiogenesis and vasoconstriction, 2)
hemodynamic regulation, 3) hormonal regulation of metabolism, and 4)
inflammation. Natural language processing demonstrates the relationship
between these proteins and the diseases succinctly and efficiently.
Conclusion: Natural language processing and text phrase-mining are
successfully applied to large amounts of publicly available Obstetrics
abstracts with accuracy, speed, and consistency. This approach holds
promise in synthesizing large volumes of data for presenting trends in
the Obstetric literature and for identification of promising biomarkers.
S-131
Identifying the Role of Transthyretin Aggregation in Preeclampsia.
Lanie G Wang†, Rose M Pedretti†, David M Owen∗, Christina L Herrera∗,
Lorena Saelices∗. UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, United
States.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is a pregnancy-specific vascular
syndrome that emerges after 20 weeks of gestation and is a major cause
of maternal, fetal, and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Despite affecting
2-8% of pregnancies worldwide, PE still lacks reliable early diagnosis
or therapy. Transthyretin (TTR) aggregates have been detected in the
placenta of preeclamptic patients. These aggregates could represent a
causal pathway for preeclampsia. We sought to identify TTR aggregates
in the placenta and maternal plasma as potential biomarkers for improved
preeclampsia prediction. We hypothesized that patients with preeclampsia
would demonstrate higher levels of TTR aggregates in placenta tissue
and plasma.
Methods: Levels of TTR aggregates were measured in both placental
lysates and maternal plasma in patients with or without chronic
hypertension (N=5 in each group). A proprietary peptide detection reagent
was used to quantify TTR aggregates by detecting fluorescent intensity
in an immunodotblot assay and quantifying signal with ImageJ. These
measurements were compared among pregnancies with and without
preeclampsia. TTR aggregates were also extracted from placental tissue
and analyzed by western blot. A subset was imaged with transmission
electron microscopy for amyloid aggregate morphology. A one-tail
Student’s t-test was performed to compare fluorescent signals.
Results: We identified elevated levels of aggregated TTR species in the
placentas and plasma at delivery in patients with preeclampsia (N=4) as
compared to patients without preeclampsia (N=6), regardless of chronic
hypertension status. The fluorescent signal of aggregated TTR species
in preeclamptic placentas was 1.57 times higher than in those without
preeclampsia ( 3.9±0.0 vs. 2.5±1.0, P = 0.01). Similarly, the fluorescent
signal in maternal plasma at delivery was, on average, 1.82 times higher
in preeclamptic patients compared to non-preeclamptic plasma (4.2±0.6
vs 2.3±0.6, P<0.001).
Conclusion: Higher levels of aggregated transthyretin observed in
preeclamptic plasma suggests a potential use as a novel biomarker to
predict disease risk. Additional studies are in process to validate the results
of this pilot study using a cohort of ~200 patients undergoing evaluation
for hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.
S-132
Associations of Urinary Metabolite Concentrations of Phthalates
and Their Replacement Chemicals with Gestational Blood Pressure.
Kimberly L Parra†,1 Emma V Preston,1 Marlee R Quinn,1 Paige L
Williams,1 Michele R Hacker,1 Thomas F McElrath,2 David E Cantonwine,2
Blair J Wylie,3 Camille E Powe,2 Ellen W Seely,2 Tamarra James-Todd∗.1
1Harvard University, Boston, MA, United States; 2Mass General Brigham,
Boston, MA, United States; 3Beth Israel Lahey Health, Boston, MA, United
States.
Introduction: Phthalates and their replacements are endocrine disrupting
chemicals (EDCs) in consumer products. EDCs are linked to altered
systemic vasodilation, increasing the risk of hypertensive disorders of
pregnancy (HDP). Few studies have evaluated associations of phthalates
on blood pressure (BP) in pregnancy.
Methods: In the ERGO study (n=338), 16 urinary phthalate metabolites
and 2 replacements were measured at prenatal visits V1-V3 (Median: 12,
19, and 26 gestational weeks). Systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure
(DBP) measures closest to V1-V3 were used. HDP included gestational
hypertension, preeclampsia, and preeclampsia superimposed on chronic
hypertension. Metabolite concentrations were log2-transformed, specificgravity
corrected, modeled continuously and as quartiles. We summed
concentrations by mechanisms (e.g. ΣEstrogenic) and sources (e.g.
ΣPersonal care products (PCP)). Linear regression estimated associations
between individual metabolites and BP; log-binomial regression
for individual metabolites and HDP; and Bayesian Kernel Machine
Regression to model phthalate mixtures effects on BP and HDP, adjusting
for age, education, race/ethnicity, and BMI.
Results: HDP prevalence was 12.7% (n=43), the mean (SD) SBP was 114
mmHg (15.3) and DBP was 67 mmHg (6.8) at V1-V3. At V3, monoethyl
phthalate, (MEP), ΣEstrogenic, and ΣPCP were associated with higher BP.
Each doubling of MEP was associated with a 1.2 mmHg (95%CI: 0.1, 2.2)
higher SBP and 1.0 mmHg (95%CI: 0.3, 1.8) higher DBP at V3. Quartile
and per doubling increases of ΣEstrogenic and ΣPCP metabolites were
also associated with higher SBP and DBP at V3. No associations were
seen between phthalate mixtures and SBP, DBP, or HDP.
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that during certain windows of
pregnancy, individual PCP-associated phthalate metabolites (and not
mixtures) were associated with altered BP in pregnancy.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 255A
Saturday Posters
S-133
Postpartum Blood Pressure Trends Among Patients with Hypertensive
Disorders of Pregnancy Discharged on Antihypertensive Medication.
Sonya Fabricant†, Ojiugo Onwumere†, Tracy Carter∗, Natalie Bello∗,
Emily Seet∗, Sarah Kilpatrick∗, Mariam Naqvi∗. Cedars Sinai Medical
Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
Introduction: We sought to describe blood pressure trends in the 14 days
following delivery discharge among patients with hypertensive disorders
of pregnancy (HDP) on antihypertensive medication.
Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study performed over a 6 month
period (1/2024-6/2024) at a quaternary academic center in Los Angeles,
CA. Patients with HDP and taking antihypertensive medication at delivery
discharge were enrolled in a postpartum home blood pressure monitoring
program. Individuals were instructed to log blood pressures twice daily.
Initial virtual follow-up was performed at 3 days and then continued
every 2-5 days until 14 days from delivery discharge. Antihypertensives
were titrated according to a standardized protocol. The primary outcome
was severe hypertension (blood pressure ≥ 160/105 mmHg) within 14
days of delivery discharge. Secondary outcomes were symptomatic
hypotension and need for antihypertensive titration within 14 days of
discharge. Demographics and peripartum clinical data were abstracted
from the medical record. Descriptive statistics were used to describe
patient characteristics and blood pressure trends.
Results: A total of 63 patients were discharged on antihypertensive
medication over the study period. In the 14 days from delivery discharge,
25 (39.7%) required adjustment of antihypertensive medication: 15
(23.8%) required a dose increase at a mean 6.8 ± 3.9 days after delivery,
and 10 (15.9%) required a dose decrease or medication cessation at a
mean 11.6 ± 3.7 days after delivery. Symptomatic hypotension occurred
in 5 patients (7.8%, mean interval from delivery 8.9 ± 1.9 days). Severe
hypertension occurred in 4 patients (6.3%, mean interval from delivery 9.4
± 4.4 days). All 4 cases of severe hypertension occurred despite adherence
to discharge antihypertensives, and all required readmission for clinical
evaluation and blood pressure stabilization (readmission rate 6.3%).
Conclusion: Among patients with HDP discharged on antihypertensives,
almost half required medication adjustment within the first two weeks.
The two-week period following delivery is a crucial period to detect both
severe hypertension and hypotension among patients with HDP.
S-134
Duration from Preeclampsia Diagnosis to Delivery and Risk of Future
Cardiovascular Disease. Nina Keitaanpää†,1 Jaakko S Tyrmi∗,1 Elli
Toivonen∗,1 Heini Huhtala∗,1 Anni Kivelä†,2 Tiina Jääskeläinen∗,2 The
FINNPEC Study Group, FinnGen Project, Hannele Laivuori∗.1,2 1Tampere
University, Tampere, Finland; 2University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
Introduction: Preeclampsia (PE) is associated with increased risk of later
maternal cardiovascular disease (CVD) compared with normotensive
pregnancies. We hypothesized that a longer latency between PE diagnosis
and delivery is positively associated with an increased risk of composite
CVD outcome before the age of 55 years due to prolonged endothelial
dysfunction during PE.
Methods: The Finnish nationwide health registry data from the Finnish
Genetics of Pre-eclampsia Consortium (FINNPEC) study (n=1139) and
the FinnGen study (n=1274) were used. Pregnancies complicated by PE
between 1990 and 2011 were included. A CVD diagnosis before pregnancy
was an exclusion criterion. The follow-up continued until a first CVD
diagnosis, the 55th birthday, or the end of the follow-up (December 31,
2020). According to the ICD-10, the included diseases were any I20-I25,
I46, I60-I69 (I63.6, I67.7 excluded), G45 (G45.4 excluded), I70-I72, I74),
and I10-I15), and respective ICD-9 diagnoses. Association between PE
duration, considered as a continuous variable, and a composite CVD
outcome was assessed with Cox proportional hazards model. Relevant
confounders were included in the model as covariates. Only variables
positively associated with a statistically significant risk of CVD were
included in the multivariable model. The FINNPEC and replication in
FinnGen cohorts were analysed separately. The two studies were approved
by the coordinating Ethics Committee of the Hospital District of Helsinki
and Uusimaa.
Results: Increasing PE duration was associated with a slightly increased
risk of CVD (crude HR 1.02 (95% CI 1.00-1.04), p=0.018 and 1.01 (95%
CI 1.00-1.02), p=0.023) for FINNPEC and FinnGen, respectively. Among
women with PE, the risk of CVD was also elevated in women with high
pregestational body mass index (BMI) (FINNPEC) and early-onset PE
(diagnosis before 340/7 weeks of gestation) (FinnGen). Association between
PE duration and CVD remained significant after adjusting for early-onset
PE (aHR 1.01 (95% CI 1.00-1.02), p=0.045) but became non-significant
after adjusting for BMI (aHR 1.02 (95% CI 1.00-1.04), p=0.063).
Conclusion: A longer latency time between PE diagnosis and delivery
appears to be associated with a slightly elevated risk of CVD occurring
before the age of 55. The association remains regardless of adjustment
with early-onset PE and is confounded by maternal pregestational BMI.
S-135
RNA Seq Uncovers Potential Mechanisms of Preimplantation
Embryotoxicity Post-Exposure to Low Level Volatile Organic
Compounds. Morgan F Orsolini,1 Eva Schenkman,2 Jason Russack,3 Huey
Huynh,3 Doug Raburn,1 Danny Schust∗,1 John Fox∗.4 1Duke University,
Durham, NC, United States; 2ARTLAB IVF Training Center, Rocky Mount,
NC, United States; 3LifeAire Systems, Allentown, PA, United States; 4Lehigh
University, Durham, NC, United States.
Introduction: Indoor air quality, specifically volatile organic compounds
(VOCs), affects outcomes of in vitro fertilization (IVF). VOCs from indoor
products have been linked to lower embryo quality and live birth rates after
IVF. Clinics are advised to maintain VOCs below 400-800 ppb, yet this
threshold is arbitrary and few studies examine VOCs within this range.
Previously, we have shown that low levels of styrene and acetaldehyde
reduce embryo hatching rates and increase oxidative stress and senescence,
respectively. Here, we examine the effect of VOCs with RNA sequencing
to identify genes and pathways disrupted by exposure.
Methods: Two-cell mouse embryos were cultured for 72 hours in an
incubator pre-gassed with acetaldehyde, styrene, or control air. Embryos
were cultured in either antioxidant containing (GXTL) or antioxidant
free (GTL) media to assess potential benefits of antioxidants in VOCcontaminated
environments. Surviving embryos were flash frozen
until RNA extraction and sequencing. Gene expression analysis was
performed using RStudio to calculate log fold changes (LogFC). Ontology
classifications were assigned with DAVID bioinformatics on differentially
expressed genes (DEGs) with LogFC > 1 and < -1.
Results: Of 15,943 expressed genes, 315 DEGs were identified. DEGs
directly linked to preimplantation embryo development included Lmx1β,
Ptk7, Brca2, Crb2, Dsc3, Foxd3, Hsf1, Lrp2, and Tgfβ1.
Acetaldehyde exposure enriched genes related to cell death, differentiation,
negative regulation of proliferation, cytoskeletal organization, and
metabolic regulation. Diminished genes included those related to
organic hydroxy compound metabolism, morphogenesis, and cell
communication. Acetaldehyde GXTL embryos exhibited enrichment in
cell cycle regulation, microtubule processes, chemical homeostasis, and
differentiation over the acetaldehyde GTL group, while genes associated
with cell death, cytoskeletal organization, and signal transduction were
downregulated.
Styrene exposure enriched genes associated with cell death, morphogenesis,
cell communication, and reproductive structure development.
Downregulated processes included chemical homeostasis, immune
response, and cell communication. Styrene GXTL showed enrichment in
reproductive system development, extracellular matrix organization, and
cell communication over styrene GTL, while cytoskeleton organization,
immune response, negative regulation of cell proliferation, and
morphogenesis were downregulated. Validation studies are underway.
Conclusion: These findings reveal key embryonic pathways affected by
low-level VOCs and provide a foundation for future mechanistic studies.
256A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
S-136
MiR-556-5p and MiR-876-3p Show to Play a Key Role in Endometrial
Failure Independent of Endometrial Timing. Antonio Parraga-Leo†,1,2
Patricia Sebastian-Leon,2 Pablo Garcia-Acero,2 Josefa Maria Sanchez-
Reyes,1,2 Carmen Vidal,3 Jose Remohi,1,3 Patricia Diaz-Gimeno∗.2
1University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain; 2IVIRMA Global Research
Alliance, IVI Foundation, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria La Fe,
Valencia, Spain; 3IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVI Valencia,
Valencia, Spain.
Introduction: The endometrium is a highly dynamic tissue with a crucial
role in embryo implantation, and its dysregulation often leads to infertility.
However, the transcriptional regulation of implantation failure remains
poorly understood. Although microRNAs (miRNAs) have been identified
as important players in implantation failure, their roles in endometrial
failure, and in particular, distinguishing between their causes, disruption,
and displacement, is completely unknown. Our study aims to decipher the
miRNA-mediated transcriptional regulation in these causes of endometrial
failure, leveraging RNA and miRNA data to reveal novel insight.
Methods: Forty endometrial samples underwent RNA and miRNA
sequencing, and two analyses were conducted. Disruption independent
of endometrial luteal phase timing and displacement, considering luteal
phase timing variations, were independently analyzed. For endometrial
disruption, endometrial luteal phase timing was corrected and samples
were transcriptomically stratified into profiles through artificial
intelligence models. Then, a differential expression analysis (DEA)
was conducted among them. For endometrial displacement, samples
were classified using the endometrial dating TED model, followed by
DEA between time profiles. Tarbase and MirTarBase databases were
used to identify uniquely experimentally validated miRNA-target gene
interactions. To ensure the action of these miRNAs in endometrial tissue,
a co-expression analysis was performed.
Results: Four differentially expressed miRNAs (miR-556-5p, miR-876-
5p, miR-6715b-3p, and miR-876-3p) were identified in endometrial
disruption. Notably, no significant miRNAs were observed in endometrial
displacement. Co-expression analysis confirmed only two significant
miRNA-gene interactions: miR-556-5p with CYBRD1 and miR-876-3p
with SATB1, which showed a negative correlation. These genes have
previously been related to implantation failure, which supports the action
of identified miRNAs in endometrial disruption.
Conclusion: Our findings highlight a stronger influence of miRNA
regulation in endometrial disruption than in displacement, providing
novel insight into endometrial failure. We identified two key miRNAs
in endometrial failure, miR-556-5p and miR-876-3p, whose interactions
with target genes CYBRD1 and STAB1 were experimentally validated
in endometrial tissue. These results offer a new perspective on miRNAdriven
endometrial dysregulation and could pave the way for more precise
diagnostics and therapies in infertility.
S-137
Impact of Corpus Luteum Number on Maternal Pregnancy and
Birth Outcomes: The Rotterdam Periconception Cohort. Lotte W
Voskamp†, Joni J Koerts†, Melek Rousian∗, Koen Verdonk∗, A H Jan
Danser∗, Régine PM Steegers-Theunissen∗, Rosalieke E Wiegel∗. Erasmus
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
Introduction: Pregnancies conceived via assisted reproductive technology
(ART) are associated with higher risks of adverse obstetric and perinatal
outcomes, with variations depending on the specific ART protocol used.
We hypothesize that these discrepancies arise from alterations in the
periconceptional hormonal environment, regulated by the corpus luteum
(CL). ART protocols modify the number of CLs, which may lead to either
CL absence or supraphysiological CL numbers at conception. Our study
aims to explore the associations between ART-induced variations in CL
number during implantation and maternal pregnancy and birth outcomes.
Methods: This study was part of the Rotterdam Periconceptional Cohort,
an ongoing tertiary center prospective cohort at the Erasmus University
Medical Center in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Women with a singleton
pregnancy between 2010 and 2022 were eligible for inclusion in this
analysis. Maternal characteristics and pregnancy outcomes were collected
from medical records. Patients were grouped by the number of CL,
classified by conception mode: 0 CL for programmed cycle frozen embryo
transfer (FET), 1 CL for natural cycle FET and spontaneous conceptions,
and >1 CL for ovarian-stimulated fresh embryo transfers. The primary
outcomes consisted of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, gestational
diabetes, gestational age at birth and birthweight, derived from medical
records. We used linear and logistic regression models, adjusting for
maternal age, body mass index, parity, and obstetric history.
Results: A total of 1,861 pregnancies were included: 72 with 0 CL, 1,414
with 1 CL and 462 with >1 CL. In comparison with natural conceptions
(1 CL), pregnancies with CL absence (0 CL) were associated with a
higher risk of gestational diabetes (aOR 2.59 [95% CI 1.31; 5.15]), and
a higher risk of preeclampsia, albeit non-significantly (aOR 2.02 [95%
CI 0.91; 4.51]). In pregnancies with >1 CL, the risk of preeclampsia was
significantly lower (aOR 0.36 [95% CI 0.18; 0.72]). In male neonates,
>1 CL was associated with a lower birthweight percentile (aβ -6.18
[95% CI -11.16; -1.20]). In contrast, in female neonates, >1 CL was not
associated with birthweight, while CL absence was associated with a
higher birthweight percentile (aβ 12.93 [95% CI 2.52; 23.34]).
Conclusion: Pregnancies without CL are associated with increased
risks of gestational diabetes and preeclampsia, while those with multiple
CLs demonstrate a reduced risk of preeclampsia but lower birthweight
percentiles, particularly in male neonates. These results support the
hypothesis that aberrant CL numbers impact maternal and neonatal health.
S-138
Unraveling Residential Segregation and Its Association with
Fecundability. Sharonda M Lovett†,1 Lauren A Wise,1 Andrea S
Richardson,2 Erin J Campbell,1 Yvette C Cozier,1 Collette N Ncube,1
Amelia K Wesselink,1 Mary D Willis∗.1 1Boston University School of
Public Health, Boston, MA, United States; 2RAND Corporation, Pittsburgh,
PA, United States.
Introduction: Residential segregation (a proxy for structural racism) is
a known determinant of health disparities. While some studies indicate
residential segregation is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes,
no study has investigated its association with fecundability (i.e., the percycle
probability of conception).
Methods: We analyzed data from 10,438 U.S. participants enrolled in
Pregnancy Study Online (2013-2022), an internet-based preconception
cohort study. Eligible participants were aged 21-45 years, assigned
female at birth, and trying to conceive without fertility treatment use.
We ascertained data (including full residential addresses) at baseline,
and during follow-up for up to 12 months or until conception. Using
baseline residential addresses, we calculated residential segregation
based on the Index of Concentration at the Extremes (ICE), which was
constructed from American Community Survey 5-year estimates. ICE
ranges from -1 (“disadvantaged”) to 1 (“privileged”). We operationalized
ICE metrics at the census tract level: economic segregation (ICEincome:
≥$100k vs. <$25k), racial segregation (ICEwhite/black: non-Hispanic White
vs. non-Hispanic Black), and racialized economic segregation (ICEincome +
white/black: non-Hispanic White ≥$100k vs. non-Hispanic Black <$25k). We
used proportional probabilities regression to estimate fecundability ratios
(FRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs), adjusting for age, calendar year
of enrollment, and geographic region of residence.
Results: We observed a monotonic inverse association for increasing
quintiles ICEincome and ICEincome + white/black with fecundability, but less
evidence of associations with ICEwhite/black. For instance, relative to
ICEincome + white/black quintile 5 (“privileged”), FRs for quintiles 4, 3, 2,
and 1 (“disadvantaged”) were 0.92 (95% CI: 0.86-0.99), 0.84 (95% CI:
0.78-0.90), 0.84 (95% CI: 0.78-0.90), and 0.79 (95% CI: 0.73-0.86),
respectively.
Conclusion: Living in a high racialized economically segregated
neighborhood was associated with a modest decrease in fecundability.
Further research is needed to elucidate mechanisms, which could inform
targeted interventions to improve population fertility.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 257A
Saturday Posters
S-139
Putting the Cart Before the Horse: Is Intended Transfer Plan
Associated with Differences in Ovarian Stimulation Characteristics
in In Vitro Fertilization (IVF)? Hilary S Friedlander†,1 Abigail Bernard†,1
Leyi Sun,2 Tracy Truong,2 Benjamin S Harris,3 Kelly Acharya∗.1 1Duke
University, Morrisville, NC, United States; 2Duke University, Durham,
NC, United States; 3Jones Institute, Norfolk, VA, United States.
Introduction: Ovarian stimulation (OS) for IVF can be followed by fresh
embryo transfer (ET) or freezing of all embryos (freeze-all, FA), which
may include preimplantation genetic testing for aneuploidy (PGT-A) or
monogenic disorders (PGT-M). While previous studies have evaluated
clinical outcomes of these various ET strategies, no study has focused
on how OS characteristics differ between the intended strategies. We
hypothesized that FA cycles, specifically those planning to use PGT-A or
PGT-M, had higher follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) dose, more days
of OS, and higher oocytes retrieved, in an attempt to increase useable
embryos. Our objective was to compare OS characteristics and oocyte
retrieval outcomes based on the intended ET plan.
Methods: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of patients aged
21-44 years undergoing first autologous retrieval cycles from 2016-2020
using the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology database. Cycles
using donor oocytes, gestational carriers, or with missing FSH dosing or
days of stimulation were excluded. Retrieval cycles were categorized by
intent for fresh or FA. FA cycles were further divided into FA without PGT
(FA-No PGT), FA with PGT-A and FA with PGT-M. General estimating
equations models with normal distribution and exchangeable working
correlation were used to estimate average change in FSH dose and oocytes
retrieved between ET plans while adjusting for age and anti-müllerian
hormone (AMH) level.
Results: A total of 193,796 cycles comprising of 143,281 (74%) intended
fresh ET and 50,515 (26%) intended FA were included. Over the 5 years,
utilization of FA and PGT-A increased. When comparing FA to fresh ET,
the FA cohort was slightly older (34.8 ± 4.5 vs 34.1± 4.5 years) and had
similar AMH (3.6 ± 3.6 vs 3.5 ± 3.6 ng/ml). The FA group used higher
cumulative FSH (median 3150 [IQR 2250, 4200] vs 3000 [2175, 4125]
IU), despite similar length stimulation (12 [11,13] days for both). When
FSH dose was adjusted for age and AMH, there was no significant
difference in FSH dose between transfer plans. Among FA cycles, the
PGT-A group was older (35.4 ± 4.1) than FA-No PGT (33.9 ± 4.8) and
PGT-M (33.0 ± 4.1); the PGT-A group had lower AMH (3.4 ± 3.4 ng/ml) vs
FA-No PGT (3.9 ± 4) and PGT-M (3.7 ± 3.4). Compared to the FA-No PGT
group, the PGT-A group had higher oocytes retrieved (median 14 [9,21]
vs 13 [7,22], adjusted p <0.001) and total blastocysts (4 [2,7] vs 3 [0,7]).
Conclusion: We observed a slightly higher cumulative FSH dose in
those planning FA compared with intended fresh ET, but similar length of
stimulation. Among FA cycles, PGT-A cycles had higher oocytes retrieved
and total embryos than No PGT cycles, despite older age and lower AMH.
This may represent more aggressive OS when PGT is planned.
S-140
Retrospective Cohort Study on the Effects of Aygestin and Anti-
Inflammatory Treatment on Repeated Implantation Failure (RIF)
and Recurrent Pregnancy Loss (RPL) Patients with Adenomyosis.
Joy Fatunbi, Thanh Luu∗, Yuan Zhang†, Mahmood Bilal∗, Amy Thees∗,
Svetlana Dambaeva∗, Joanne Kwak-Kim∗. Rosalind Franklin University,
North Chicago, IL, United States.
Introduction: Adenomyosis is a benign inflammatory uterine disorder
where endometrial tissue grows within the uterine muscle. A metaanalysis
showed that adenomyosis was associated with a 28% reduction
in the clinical pregnancy rate in infertile women who underwent in vitro
fertilization (IVF) independent of embryo or oocyte quality. 1 Patients
with adenomyosis have decreased expression of progesterone receptor
(PR) A and B, decreased PR activity, dysregulated gene networks, and
disturbed PR signaling 2. Putative mechanisms for progesterone resistance
include inflammation, progesterone receptor gene polymorphism, and
defectively programmed stem cells. This study aims to determine if
Aygestin (norethindrone acetate) and anti-inflammatory treatment exert
beneficial effects on hormone, immunological, and pregnancy outcomes
in women with adenomyosis.
Methods: This retrospective cohort analysis included patients with
recurrent implantation failure (RIF) and recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL)
registered at a reproductive medicine clinic from November 2023 to
August 2024. Participants were investigated for aberrations in cellular,
autoimmune, and gene expression results. The presence of adenomyosis
was investigated by 3D pelvic ultrasound (US). A subset of patients
diagnosed with adenomyosis were treated with Aygestin 5 mg daily for at
least one month and peripheral blood inflammatory immune abnormalities
were treated with anti-inflammatory medications. US evaluation was
performed before and after treatment. Analysis was performed using
Graph Pad Prism 10.
Results: Of the 297 patients, 88 were diagnosed with adenomyosis
via pelvic ultrasound. Thirteen patients, including (3) RIF and (4) RPL
completed treatment with Aygestin. 53% (n= 7) had follow up US
completed after treatment with Aygestin. When comparing the uterine
volume before and after treatment there was a significant decrease in the
volume after treatment (p=0.03). Of the patients who attempted conception
with adenomyosis, 66% had a clinical pregnancy after treatment. There
was no significant difference in gene expression for FOX01 (p=0.57)
between those treated with Aygestin with adenomyosis compared to those
without adenomyosis. No difference was found in gene expression levels
of GZMB, IL15, SCNN1A, SGK1 and SLC2A1 (p=0.91, 0.99, 0.066,
0.25 and 0.1) respectively.
Conclusion: In this study gene expression analysis did not reveal
significant differences in key genes related to progesterone signaling and
decidualization between patients with and without adenomyosis, but the
study’s findings suggest that Aygestin and anti-inflammatory treatment
may offer a short-term, cost-effective approach to improve adenomyosis
symptoms and fertility outcomes.
S-141
Comparing Adverse Childhood Experiences, Hair Cortisol, and Mental
Health Disorders Among US Women with Infertility and US Mothers.
Alison Swift, Melvin Swanson, Madeline Fernandez-Pineda. East Carolina
University, Greenville, NC, United States.
Introduction: Adverse childhood events (ACEs) are early life traumatic
events associated with adult chronic health problems and mental health
disorders. ACEs include physical, sexual, emotional and verbal abuse,
neglect, and household dysfunction (e.g., parental divorce, incarceration).
Chronic stress associated with ACEs may lead to hypothalamic-pituitaryadrenal
(HPA) axis dysregulation, possibly affecting women’s fertility.
Few studies have investigated the associations between ACEs and
infertility and no studies have explored these traumas with chronic stress
biomarkers, such as hair cortisol concentrations (HCC), and mental health
disorders among women with infertility; therefore, we examined ACEs,
hair cortisol, stress, anxiety, depression, and PTSD symptoms among
US women with female infertility (FI) compared to US mothers with no
fertility difficulties (Moms).
Methods: A descriptive cross-sectional study with a follow-up design
was used to recruit 148 US FI and a comparison group of 91 US Moms
through social media, fertility clinics, and healthcare clinics. All women
completed an online survey via REDCap after informed consent that
included perceived stress (PSS-4), anxiety (GAD-7), depression (PHQ-
8), post-traumatic stress disorder (PC-PTSD-5) symptoms, demographic,
fertility history, and ACE questionnaires. A subsample of 50 women (n =
25 for each group) provided 3 cm of root hair for HCC analysis. Statistical
analyses included descriptive statistics, chi-square test for independence,
independent t-tests, and Pearson correlation coefficient.
Results: FI experienced a significantly higher percentage of parental loss
via divorce/death than Moms (26.4% vs 15.4%, p = 0.48). FI with 1 or
more ACEs had clinically and significantly higher GAD (p < .001), PHQ
(p = .001), and PTSD (p < .001) scores, and significantly higher PSS (p
< .001), while Moms with 1 or more ACEs only had significantly higher
PSS scores (p = .016). Specifically, FI who experienced emotional or
sexual abuse had significantly worse PSS, GAD, PHQ, and PTSD scores
258A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
compared to Moms. FI who experienced parental loss via divorce/death
or substance use in the household had significantly worse scores on PSS,
GAD, and PTSD, while Moms with these ACEs only had higher GAD
scores. FI had significant inverse correlations between HCC and PSS (r
= -.43, p = .046) and PTSD (r = -.51, p = .016); however, no significant
differences in HCC were observed between FI and Moms or between
HCC and mental health scores in Moms.
Conclusion: Life-course stress through ACEs may cause hypothalamicpituitary-
adrenal axis dysregulation, disrupting menstrual cycle hormones
and leading to mental health disorders. The cumulative effect of ACEs and
reproductive trauma may exacerbate mental health symptoms in women
with infertility, warranting consideration of ACEs and mental health in
fertility care plans.
S-142
Maternal Polycystic Ovary Syndrome is Associated with Higher
Embryo Mitoscore. Chelsea A. Henshaw†,1 Daneeka P. Hamilton,1 Evan
Kwiatkowski,2 Laura Detti,1 Chellakkan S. Blesson∗.1 1Baylor College of
Medicine, Houston, TX, United States; 2The University of Texas Health
Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, United States.
Introduction: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) presents a significant
challenge in reproductive health and is a leading cause of infertility.
Research suggests that PCOS is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction
in oocytes, often characterized by increased mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)
content. In human embryos, MitoScore—the ratio of mtDNA to nuclear
DNA—serves as a marker of mitochondrial health. A higher MitoScore
has been linked to reduced implantation rates in in vitro fertilization
(IVF). This study investigates the potential association between PCOS
and embryo MitoScore.
Methods: We performed a retrospective cohort study at a single academic
fertility center, analyzing patients who underwent IVF with ICSI and
PGT-A using their own eggs between January 2018 and December
2023. Patients with PCOS (diagnosed using the Rotterdam criteria)
were matched 1:1 by age and BMI with non-PCOS controls. Infertility
diagnoses were confirmed through chart review. Patients without resulting
euploid embryos were excluded. The primary outcome was MitoScore.
Secondary outcomes included day of PGT biopsy, time to blastulation
(TTB), embryo grade (Gardner scale), and embryo sex. A linear mixedeffects
model was applied to account for repeated measures and matched
subjects. Multivariate analysis was performed when comparing multiple
variables.
Results: Out of 557 patients meeting the inclusion criteria, 187 had a
diagnosis of PCOS. We established 136 age- and BMI-matched pairs.
We analyzed 621 euploid embryos from PCOS patients and 450 from
controls. Embryos from PCOS patients showed significantly higher
MitoScores than embryos from non-PCOS controls (p = 0.03). Regardless
of diagnosis, lower MitoScores were associated with better-quality
embryos (‘good’ grade), shorter TTB, and Day 5 blastocysts compared to
fair-quality embryos, longer TTB, and Day 6 or 7 blastocysts (p < 0.001).
Interestingly, embryo sex (p = 0.43), patient age (p = 0.06), and BMI (p
= 0.1) were not independently associated with MitoScore. However, the
effect of BMI should be interpreted cautiously due to the limited number
of patients with higher BMI. In a multivariate model, PCOS combined
with older age was associated with significantly higher MitoScores in
female embryos but not in male embryos.
Conclusion: Our findings indicate that PCOS is linked to elevated
MitoScores in embryos, suggesting impaired mitochondrial health. While
patient age and BMI did not impact MitoScore, embryo quality and TTB
were key factors influencing MitoScore. These results highlight the
importance of mitochondrial health in embryo quality and development
and further suggest that PCOS affects reproductive outcomes through
mitochondrial pathways.
S-143
Associations of Prenatal and Childhood Exposures to Ambient
Temperature with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome. Boya Zhang†, Elizabeth
Peebles, Makiko Mitsunami, Brent Coull, Tamara James-Todd, Jorge
Chavarro, Jaime Hart, Francine Laden, Shruthi Mahalingaiah∗. Harvard
T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: With the impact of climate change, elevated temperatures
pose a significant threat to reproductive health. However, the effect
of exposure to ambient temperature during important reproductive
developmental windows on polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) still
remains unknown. Here, we investigated the association of average
temperature exposure during prenatal and childhood periods with the
risk of developing PCOS.
Methods: We used data from participants born after 1989 in the Growing
Up Today Study (GUTS), which is a US nationwide ongoing cohort of
young adults initiated in 2004 when participants were 10-14 years old.
Monthly average mean temperatures were estimated using data from
the PRISM climate group at Oregon State University and assigned to
maternal participants’ residential addresses updated every two years.
We considered exposure during potentially susceptible developmental
periods including: prenatal (12 months before birth, 1st trimester, 2nd
trimester, and 3rd trimester) and in childhood, defined from birth to age
at menarche. PCOS was identified with self-reported diagnosis by the
healthcare provider from 2011 to 2021 follow-up questionnaires. We
limited our analyses to those with available demographic, outcome,
and exposure data during the prenatal (N=3451) and childhood period
(N=3717). We estimated hazard ratios (HRs) for PCOS per interquartile
range (IQR) of residential temperature using Cox proportional hazards
models adjusting for potential confounders.
Results: We identified PCOS cases among about 7.1% of the study
population during the 14.3 ±4.2 years from age at menarche to our
end of follow-up in 2021. In the fully adjusted models, higher ambient
temperatures during the prenatal (HR, 1.27 per 4.8 ℃, 95%CI, 0.92,
1.74) and childhood (1.18 per 4.0 ℃, 95%CI, 0.89, 1.55) periods were
associated with higher risks of PCOS. Among different pregnancy
trimesters, only the average temperature during the first trimester was
strongly and robustly associated with a higher risk of PCOS (1.64 per
14.4 ℃, 95%CI, 1.01, 2.65).
Conclusion: Our study indicates that there may be a connection between
high temperatures during the prenatal period, particularly in the first
trimester, and the later risk of developing PCOS. However, further research
is needed to validate our findings.
S-144
Healthy Early Life Moments in Singapore (HELMS): A Single-Arm
Pilot Implementation Trial. Chee Wai Ku†,1 See Ling Loy,1 Keith
Godfrey,2 Fabian Yap,1 Jerry Chan.1 1KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital,
Singapore, Singapore; 2University of Southampton, United Kingdom,
United Kingdom.
Introduction: An alarming fall in fertility rates globally has accompanied
a sharp rise in obesity and metabolic disease. Maternal obesity in the
preconception, pregnancy, and postpartum periods is associated with
numerous complications. Preconception represents a critical period where
improvements in women’s health will not only reduce their lifetime
risk of metabolic diseases, but also improve intergenerational health
for the offspring. We aimed to examine whether an integrated lifestyle
intervention initiated preconceptionally and continuing throughout
pregnancy and postpartum can improve the metabolic and mental health
of women with obesity, as well as improve early child growth and
development.
Methods: The HELMS single-arm pilot implementation trial aims to
recruit 500 women aged 21-40 years with a body mass index (BMI)
of 25-40 kg/m2 who plan to have a pregnancy, with interventions
delivered before conception, throughout pregnancy, and until 18 months
post-delivery. Co-primary outcomes include pregnancy rate, maternal
metabolic and mental health status. Secondary outcomes include maternal
reproductive health, pregnancy outcomes, and offspring growth and
feeding practices. The intervention is delivered on a digital platform,
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 259A
Saturday Posters
with modules designed to provide anticipatory guidance, and guide goal
setting on lifestyle behaviours that include diet, physical activity, mental
wellness, and sleep hygiene from preconception to postpartum. Metabolic
health support is delivered with a novel “6P” healthy mental model of
nutrition, comprising Portion, Proportion, Pleasure, Phase, Physicality
and Psychology. Women who conceive within a year of recruitment will
be followed through pregnancy and studied with their infants at six time
points during the first 18 months of life. Questionnaires, anthropometric
measurements, and biosamples will be collected from participants at
each time point.
Results: Among 348 women enrolled to date, 98 have become pregnant,
and 43 have delivered. They have a mean age of 33.5 years and mean
BMI of 29.9 kg/m2. Preliminary analyses have shown that 20.1% of
women had pre-existing dysglycaemia (impaired fasting glucose, impaired
glucose tolerance, or diabetes mellitus) and 31.8% of women had the
metabolic syndrome at baseline. Pilot evaluation of the preconception
phase of HELMS has shown that this intervention was acceptable,
appropriate, and feasible to participants. There will be ongoing evaluation
of implementation, clinical, and cost-effectiveness outcomes for the
HELMS program.
Conclusion: This study will pave the way for future pragmatic trials of
this novel model of care adopting a holistic intervention throughout the
life-course, with greater integration of care between primary and tertiary
healthcare systems and ongoing community efforts to engage and support
women in this journey.
S-145
Prevalence of Subcortical Maternal Complex (SCMC) Gene Variants
in Infertility, Recurrent Miscarriages, and Beckwith-Wiedemann
Syndrome (BWS). Pierpaola Tannorella∗,1 Marco Reschini∗,2 Giada
Polenghi†,2 Alessandro Vimercati∗,1 Luciano Calzari∗,1 Giorgia Di
Stefano,2 Maíra Casalechi†,2 Davide Gentilini∗,3 Paola Vigano’∗,2 Edgardo
Somigliana∗,4 Silvia Russo∗.1 1IRCCS Istituto Auxologico Italiano, Milano,
Italy; 2Fondazione IRCCS Ca’ Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico,
Milano, Italy; 3IRCCS Istituto Auxologico Italiano, Cusano Milanino,
Italy; 4Universita degli Studi di Milano, Milano, Italy.
Introduction: Maternal-effect genes (MEGs) encode transcripts that
are expressed exclusively in oocytes and are crucial for guiding early
embryonic development both before and after embryonic genome
activation (EGA). One key player in this process is the SCMC, a large
protein complex involved in several critical functions, such as the
formation and assembly of meiotic and mitotic spindles, the rearrangement
of oocyte and zygote compartments, regulation of RNA metabolism,
zygotic genome activation, and maintenance of genomic imprinting.
Given the multifaceted roles of SCMC proteins, it is not surprising that
genomic variants in these proteins contribute to a wide spectrum of
reproductive abnormalities. These range from infertility and recurrent
pregnancy loss (RPL) to disruptions in genomic imprinting, which can
affect offspring. While the pathogenic potential of maternal-effect variants
in SCMC is evident, the relationship between these variants and different
reproductive outcomes remains poorly understood. We hypothesize
that distinct pathogenic variants in SCMC or other MEGs may result in
different reproductive failures.
Methods: To investigate the prevalence of MEGs, with a particular
focus on SCMC variants, we conducted whole-exome sequencing on 58
women belonging to three different cohorts: 1) infertile women under 35
undergoing assisted reproductive technology who were unable to achieve
a clinical pregnancy after three complete cycles or after the transfer of at
least 6 blastocysts (n=12), 2) women that experienced RPL (n=24), and
3) healthy women whose offspring were diagnosed with BWS (n=22).
We curated a virtual panel consisting of 86 genes classified as MEGs,
prioritized the variants, and evaluated those with a minor allele frequency
of <0.05 located within coding regions.
Results: Our analysis identified 223 variants. Notably, 30% of these
variants were found in genes encoding SCMC components. Of particular
interest, the NLRP2 gene was evenly represented across all three cohorts
and exhibited the highest number of variants (n=18). Variants in the
OOEP and PADI6 genes were primarily found in the cohort of mothers
with BWS-affected offspring (cohort 3), while variants in NLRP7 and
TLE6 were exclusively observed in the cohorts 1 and 2, consistent with
previous reports in the literature.
Conclusion: These preliminary findings suggest an enrichment of variants
in SCMC-encoding genes. To further support and validate these results,
we plan to expand the study population.
S-146
A Systematic Review of Cumulus Cell Features Associated with Oocyte
Quality in Animal Models. Steven Doctorman,1 Ana Hernández González,1
Peixi Ge,1 Marcus Spann,1 Matthew Rohn,2 Jocelyn Simeone,1 Cemile
Gunalp,1 Samya El Sayed,1 Rebecca A Holton,1 Kamaria Cayton Vaught,1
Sam Das,1 Mark Dow,1 James Pickel,1 James Segars,1 Bhuchitra Singh†.1
1Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States; 2George
Washington University, Washington DC, DC, United States.
Introduction: Cumulus cells are specialized cells that surround the
developing oocyte within the ovarian follicle. The objective of this
systematic review was to evaluate factors associated with cumulus cells
that correlated with high quality oocytes in animal models.
Methods: Following PRISMA guidelines and using PubMed, Embase,
Cochrane, Web of Science, and Scopus, manuscripts published prior to
January 2024 were assessed for functional roles of cumulus cells in direct
or indirect measures of oocyte quality in animals. Articles were assessed
for risk-of-bias using SYRCLE’s RoB. Extracted data were synthesized
descriptively.
Results: Of the 18,609 articles initially identified, 7,575 studies were
screened, with 343 considered for full text analysis and 115 manuscripts
included for review. Articles were categorized based on the functional
role of cumulus cells addressed: genetics, biochemistry, or morphology.
Results from five articles demonstrated a positive correlation between
increased cumulus cell expression of genes associated with extracellular
matrix development (GJA1, RHOBTB1, CDH5, GPC4) and improved
oocyte quality. Another eight articles reported greater oocyte quality in
association with increased expression of genes promoting cumulus cell
expansion (GREM1, HAS2, PRSS35, PTX3), and five articles demonstrated
this correlation with promoters of cellular signaling (FGF2, PTGS2,
TNFAIP6). With respect to biochemical regulation, eighteen articles
reported increased oocyte quality in association with the presence of
cumulus cells for metabolic support, and six studies found a similar
effect with respect to follicle-stimulating hormone signaling. Four studies
also identified that cumulus cells may mitigate the deleterious effects of
oxidative stress for oocyte development. Lastly, twenty-one manuscripts
discussed the effect of cumulus cell morphology on oocyte quality,
including three articles finding a positive association between the density/
number of cumulus cell layers and oocyte quality in porcine, ovine, and
bovine models, and two articles finding the opposite association in canine
and camel models. Three studies also found a negative effect of thermal
stress on cumulus cell development, and, in turn, oocyte quality.
Conclusion: The findings of this review identified commonalities and
distinct factors in cumulus cells common among animal models that
were associated with high quality oocyte development. These results
provide a foundation to facilitate translational research utilizing animal
models for the understanding of biological dynamics present in the human
reproductive system.
S-147
Spatial and Temporal Protein Expression of the Maternal
Endometrium and Transitioned Decidua. Maria del Pilar Flores
Espinosa†, Souvik Paul, Isidore Mushimiyimana, Jaganmoy Choudhury,
Ramkumar Menon, Ananth Kammala, Lauren Richardson. UTMB,
Galveston, TX, United States.
Introduction: Decidua refers to the hormonally transitioned and highly
specialized endometrium that lines the uterus throughout gestation.
Decidua connected to the placental trophoblasts (decidua basalis [DB])
and the chorionic trophoblasts of the fetal membranes (decidua parietalis
[DP]) form two maternal-fetal interfaces that are essential for pregnancy
maintenance. However, how these spatial differences define protein
expression, hormone production, or immune regulation, defining their
260A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
functions during pregnancy is still unknown. This study compared DB
and DP primary cells, characterized and functionally compared them to
primary tissue and endometrial stromal cells (ESC).
Methods: Full-term, c-section derived placenta and fetal membranes
(n=3) underwent mechanical and enzymatic digestions followed by a
density gradient to isolate primary cells from DB and DP. Cell purity
was evaluated by decidualization markers vimentin (VIM) and prolactin
(PRL) expression (immunocytochemistry) and cell morphology.
Proteomic analysis determined similarities and differences within both
cell types, with primary tissue and ESC as controls. Correlation values
were calculated for primary cells and tissue. The differentially expressed
proteins were subjected to ingenuity pathway analysis. The response
of ESC, DB, and DP primary cells to hormone stimulation (estradiol,
progesterone, cAMP) was assessed by measuring PRL and Insulin-like
growth factor-binding protein 1 (IGFBP1) expression.
Results: DB and DP showed similar morphology, marker expression
(VIM+/PRL+), and proteome profiles similar to their corresponding
primary tissue. Proteomic data comparison between DB and DP
showed high levels of correlation (R=0.99); however, pathways related
to antioxidant defense, transported proteins, and metabolism were
upregulated in DB vs DP. Compared to ESCs (VIM+/PRL-), both DB
and DP primary cells displayed mesenchymal morphology. The proteome
between them showed a high correlation (DB vs. ESC: R=0.97; DP vs.
ESC: R=0.97); however, overall, differentially expressed markers in
decidua cells represented pathways related to antioxidant defense, cell
organization, insulin signaling, and immune regulation compared to
ESCs. PRL and IGFBP1 expressions were upregulated after hormonal
stimulation of ESC, DB, and DP, showing similarity.
Conclusion: We isolated primary cells from DB and DP that mimic their
human tissue of origin on the protein level. Although spatially separated,
DB and DP are similar in their character profile and supportive of their
origin. The response of DB and DP to hormones and resulting pathways
differ from ESC is indicative of their expected role during pregnancy.
We propose that spatiotemporal induced rearrangements resulting from
decidualization of ESC is an indication of their functional properties
during pregnancy.
S-148
Exploring the Biological Roles of miR-191-5p and miR-30c-5p in
Impaired Fertility and Their Potential as Diagnostic Biomarkers
in Adenomyosis. Ana Corachán†,1 Elena Juárez-Barber†,1 Ana Belén
Albert†,1 Lucía Chico-Sordo†,1 Amparo Faus,2 Carmen Vidal,2 Juan Giles,2
Juan Antonio García-Velasco,3 Hortensia Ferrero.1 1IIS La Fe, Valencia,
Spain; 2IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, Valencia, Spain; 3IVIRMA
Global Research Alliance, Madrid, Spain.
Introduction: Patients with adenomyosis face infertility and poorer
IVF outcomes than infertile patients without this condition. While
the molecular mechanisms underlying its infertility remain unclear,
impaired implantation and decidualization have been linked to lower
implantation and higher miscarriage rates. Limited understanding of
its pathophysiology hampers diagnosis which requires histology after
hysterectomy. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can play a role in adenomyosis
pathogenesis and infertility and serve as a non-invasive disease biomarker.
Methods: Eutopic endometrial samples collected in secretory phase (P+5)
from infertile patients with/without adenomyosis (ADENO/CONTROL)
(n=6/group). Adenomyosis diagnosis/exclusion was made by ultrasound
based on MUSA criteria. RNA and miRNAs were extracted to assess
miR-191-5p, miR-30c-5p and their target genes expression by qRT-PCR.
Results are presented as average fold change ± standard deviation. The
potential of miRNAs to distinguish between CONTROL and ADENO
samples was assessed by AUC-ROC (area under the receiver operating
characteristic curve).
Results: ADENO endometrium showed significantly higher expression
of miR-191-5p (2.12 ± 0.63, p=0.02) and miR-30c-5p (1.75 ± 0.44,
p=0.02) than CONTROL (1.13 ± 0.55 and 1.09 ± 0.44; respectively).
Predictive ability evaluation showed an AUC of 0.89 (95% CI: 0.67-1) for
miR-191-5p, and 0.86 (95% CI: 0.63-1) for miR-30c-5p. The expression
of their target genes related to decidualization, embryo implantation
and pregnancy was evaluated. SOX4 expression, downregulated in
recurrent implantation failure, was decreased in ADENO compared to
CONTROL (0.39 ± 0.06 vs. 1.08 ± 0.44, p=0.003). CEBPB and RUNX2
expression, key in decidualization, was significantly lower in ADENO
than in CONTROL (0.34 ± 0.19 vs. 1.16 ± 0.67, p=0.01; and 0.42 ±
0.17 vs. 1.02 ± 0.26, p=0.001; respectively). CDK6 (0.53 ± 0.32) and
BMP2 (0.27 ± 0.3), downregulated in defective murine decidualization,
were significantly reduced in ADENO compared to CONTROL (1.05 ±
0.32, p=0.02 and 1.86 ± 2.49, p=0.04; respectively). PAI-1 expression,
involved in adenomyosis pathophysiology and decidualization, was lower
in ADENO (0.52 ± 0.47 vs. 1.03 ± 0.28; p= 0.06).
Conclusion: ADENO endometrium exhibited miR-191-5p and miR-
30c-5p overexpression and fertility-related target genes downregulation
compared to CONTROL. ROC analysis revealed high AUC, indicating
that both miRNAs have good sensitivity and specificity to distinguish
ADENO from CONTROL. This suggests a potential role of both miRNAs
in adenomyosis pathogenesis and related infertility, highlighting its
potential as a non-invasive diagnostic biomarker.
S-149
Using Multivariate Live-Cell Imaging to Build a Cue-Signal-Response
Model of Endometrial Stromal Cell Decidualization. Jose Luis
Cadavid†, Sarah Pertsemlidis†, Linda Griffith∗, Douglas Lauffenburger∗.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, United States.
Introduction: Decidualization of endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) is
paramount for normal endometrial and reproductive physiology, and
compromised decidualization is a hallmark of different gynecological
disorders such as endometriosis. While decidualization is triggered by
rising levels of circulating progesterone and intracellular spikes of protein
kinase A (PKA) activity, this differentiation process involves multiple
other signaling pathways and autocrine cascades that dictate the success
of the decidualization program. Yet, to date, most of these pathways have
been studied in isolation and with low temporal resolution, which poses a
significant barrier to understanding the complex multipathway regulation
that underlies decidualization.
Methods: We use a data-driven systems biology approach that draws
from multivariate measurements and a diverse set of experimental
conditions to bridge this gap. We built a panel of genetically engineered
reporter endometrial stromal cells to monitor the activity of several
critical signaling pathways and cell phenotypes, then applied functional
regression analysis on this rich dynamic dataset to build a predictive
cue-signal-response model of decidualization. We then performed feature
selection to determine a set of key time points and signaling features to
be measured in primary cells using antibody-based assays, enabling us to
apply our reporter-based model to these patient-derived ESCs.
Results: Our computational model captures the quantitative relation
between the dynamic and coordinated role of multiple signaling pathways
and the success of the decidualization program in engineered cell lines.
Importantly, our model highlights the crucial role of early signaling
dynamics in predicting decidualization as assessed by secreted prolactin.
Moreover, our transfer learning approach based on key features of
the computational model allows us to make quantitative predictions
about primary ESCs to evaluate potential therapeutic targets to restore
progesterone responsiveness.
Conclusion: We anticipate this approach will illuminate our understanding
of decidualization as a complex process. Furthermore, we envision that
applying our model to patient-derived cells will be a useful diagnostic tool
to determine potential interventions to remediate impaired decidualization
in subsets of patients whose “progesterone resistance” may arise for
diverse mechanistic reasons.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 261A
Saturday Posters
S-150
Endometrial Microbiome Community Influences Endometrial Gene
Expression during the Window of Implantation. Marta Gonzalez-
Monfort†,1 Ghjuvan Grimaud∗,1 David Perez-Villaroya∗,2 Yong Yue∗,3
Jun Yin∗,3 Felipe Vilella∗,1 Carlos Simon∗,1,4,5 Inmaculada Moreno∗.1
1Carlos Simon Foundation - INCLIVA Health Research Institute, Valencia,
Spain; 2Igenomix R&D, Paterna, Spain; 3Ferring Research Institute Inc,
San Diego, CA, United States; 4University of Valencia, Valencia, Spain;
5Harvard University, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: Human endometrial microbiome analysis via 16S rRNA
sequencing revealed a higher abundance of Lactobacillus in patients with
a live birth (LB) after in vitro fertilization (IVF) and adverse outcomes
in the presence of pathogenic bacteria (PMID: 34980280). Endometrial
gene expression differs in women with distinct reproductive outcomes;
specifically, reproductive failure correlates with dysregulation of the
immune system, GPCR signaling, cell death, transcription regulation,
among others. To understand how bacteria affect endometrial function,
we used shotgun metagenomics (WMS) and metatranscriptomics (MTX)
to explore relationships between bacterial communities and endometrial
gene activity in infertile women during the window of implantation.
Methods: WMS and MTX analyses were conducted on endometrial
fluid samples and biopsies from IVF patients during the window of
implantation. WMS used the Illumina DNA prep system, with sequencing
using the NovaSeq platform (45 Gb/sample). Biobakery, Kraken2,
and Virgo2 pipelines provided consensus taxonomy/functional results.
MTX used the Illumina Stranded total RNA with RiboZero; FastQC,
Trimmomatic, STAR, and Picard processed the transcriptomic data (20
Gb/sample). Differential abundance analysis used EdgeR. Statistical
significance was considered when FDR below 0.1.
Results: We grouped samples into community state types (CSTs)
dominated by specific bacteria: CST1: mixed profiles, CST2:
Lactobacillus crispatus, CST3: Lactobacillus iners, CST4: L. crispatus
+ other commensals, and CST5: Gardnerella vaginalis. Women with a
CST5 endometrial microbiome had lower LB rates (22.2%) than those
with Lactobacillus-dominated CSTs (2: 30.77%, 3: 30%). The CST5
endometria upregulated the expression of genes related to antibacterial
peptide production (PGC), metabolic processes (CTAG1B, CTAG2), and
protein degradation (DCAF8L1); while downregulated the expression
of genes related to immunity (CXCL8, IL1B, chemokine receptors,
immunoglobulins), implantation related metalloproteinase (MMP9) and
GPCRs (FFAR2, HCAR3, CXCR2, GPR42).
Conclusion: The presence of G. vaginalis in the endometrium associates
with poorer reproductive outcomes and dysregulated endometrial gene
expression. Activating antimicrobial peptide production and decreasing
humoral immune response pathways could negatively affect endometrial
receptivity and embryo implantation.
S-151
An Organoid-Stroma Co-Culture Model to Define the Role of
Leukemia Inhibitory Factor in Endometriosis. Elizabeth E Marr†,1
Mariana Alonso-Riquelme,1 Manavi Vajhallya,1 Manek S. Khedia,1 Mollie
A. O’ Brien,2 Peter R. Movilla,2 Juan S. Gnecco∗.1 1Tufts University,
Medford, MA, United States; 2Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Newton, MA,
United States.
Introduction: Endometriosis is a debilitating gynecologic disease
which impacts 190 million people globally and is associated with
up to half of infertility cases. Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is an
immunomodulatory cytokine involved in fertility and altered LIF signaling
has been associated with patients with endometriosis. Specifically,
downregulation of LIF and its receptor LIFR is observed in the eutopic
endometrium of endometriotic patients but overexpressed in the ectopic
lesion. These findings suggest that LIF is implicated in the pathogenesis
of endometriosis. Here, we hypothesize that exposure to inflammatory
signals temporally regulates LIF signaling and subsequent endometrial
cell function. To test this, we aimed to identify the mechanism by which
pro-inflammatory challenges impact spatial and temporal LIF/ LIFR
expression using endometrial organoids and stroma from patients with
and without endometriosis.
Methods: Endometrial epithelial organoids (EEOs) were embedded in a
multi-arm PEG-based synthetic extracellular matrix to generate epithelial
luminal and glandular structures in vitro, then co-cultured with and
without endometrial stromal cells. Epithelial phenotypes of the luminal
(LE) surface and gland (GE) structures within the PEG hydrogel were
characterized via FOXA2 and SOX9 antibody staining. Cells were treated
with sex hormones to mimic the menstrual phases and exposed to acute or
chronic doses of inflammatory cytokine IL-1β to mimic the endometriotic
phenotype. LIF/LIFR expression was measured in cells across 15 days
using immunofluorescent imaging and ELISA assays.
Results: Structurally, EEOs seeded in PEG hydrogels generated
monolayers and glandular structures deeper within the gel, thereby
capturing the LE and GE compartmentalization of the native endometrium.
Distinct LIF/LIFR expression patterns between the GE/LE were observed
in co-culture conditions compared to monocultures in response to
progesterone stimulation. We further observed a biphasic response to
acute IL-1β stimulation resulting in upregulated LIF/LIFR expression
suggesting that LIF signaling may be regulated by immune-endocrine
interactions. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the presence of the stromal
compartment is vital to inflammatory mediated LIF signaling.
Conclusion: These results suggest that both stromal-epithelial crosstalk
and inflammatory cues are regulators of physiological LIF signaling in
the endometrium. Future directions aim to explore how LIF signaling
between epithelial-stromal-immune populations regulate implantation
with our LE-GE model.
S-152
Commensal Bacteria of the Upper Reproductive Tract Modulate
Decidual Stromal and Uterine Immune Cells. Lea Sophie Zemmrich†,
Jens Ehrhardt, Marek Zygmunt∗, Damián Muzzio∗. University Medicine
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
Introduction: During early pregnancy, a balance between tolerance of the
fetus and protection from infection is ensured. This allows the induction of
a necessary mild inflammatory state assisting fetal growth and promoting
tissue remodelling and angiogenesis while upholding tolerance against
fetal antigens and the local microbiome. There is increasing proof that
the endometrial microbiome might be involved in key events driving
pregnancy success via constant communication with the local immune
system. Decidual stromal cells (DSC) are important determinants of
decidual immune cell phenotype and function at the fetomaternal interface.
In this work, we investigate how DSC recognize and interact (directly or
indirectly) with uterine commensal bacteria.
Methods: Human endometrial stromal cell line T-HESC was decidualized
(dT-HESC) by stimulation with 8-bromo-cAMP and MPA. Expression
of Toll-like receptors (TLR) by dT-HESC was evaluated by qPCR,
immunofluorescence and On-Cell Western Assay (OCW). Direct bacterial
influence and functionality of TLR was tested by In-Cell Western Assay
(ICW) through activation of p-NF-κB after stimulation with TLR agonists.
To investigate the indirect effect of bacteria on the modulatory role of
DSC through immune cell activation, dT-HESC were stimulated with
pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-8, IL-17 and IL-22. Gene and protein
expression of angiogenesis-promoting and tissue-remodelling cytokines
(ANGPT-2, IGF-1, MMP-2, VEGF) by dT-HESC was analysed by qPCR
and ELISA. All experiments were performed in six replicates. Data were
analyzed by paired t-test and one-way ANOVA (Šidák correction). A P or
Padj value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
Results: Decidualization of T-HESC led to a change in TLR1 - 9 gene
expression with TLR2 and TLR4 being significantly increased and
TLR5 and TLR9 significantly decreased. Similarly, TLR-2, -4 and -6
surface expression were increased, while TLR-1 and -5 were decreased.
Stimulation with TLR-agonists showed no change in p-NF-κB expression
in non-decidualized T-HESC, but increased p-NF-κB expression in dTHESC.
Stimulation with cytokines showed significantly increased MMP-2
and VEGF secretion in dT-HESC, while T-HESC showed no change in
MMP-2 and undetectable VEGF. IGF-1 expression was increased in dTHESC
after stimulation with cytokines, while T-HESC show negligible
IGF-1 secretion. ANGPT-2 expression was decreased upon cytokine
stimulation in dT-HESC compared to T-HESC control.
262A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Conclusion: Decidualization makes stromal cells more sensitive towards
bacteria and enhances their angiogenic and tissue remodelling capacity
in the context of immune cell interactions. Thus, pregnancy-promoting
functions of DSC can be fostered by decidual immune cells in response
to uterine bacteria stimuli.
S-153
Glucocorticoids Inhibit “Inflamm-Aging” and Promote Decidualization
in Human Endometrial Stromal Cells (ESC). Sarah Berga∗,1 Eric
Zou†,1 Shannon Whirledge∗,2 Sawsan As-Sanie∗,3 Marc Halterman∗,1
Milan Bagchi∗,4 Jie Yu∗.1 1Jacobs SMBS, Univ Buffalo SUNY, Buffalo, NY,
United States; 2Yale Univ SOM, New Haven, CT, United States; 3Michigan
Vniv, Ann Arbor, MI, United States; 4Univ Illinois SOM, Urbana, IL,
United States.
Introduction: Chronic inflammation impairs implantation and may
increase pain and other deleterious side effects of endometriosis. Human
endometrial development is regulated by sex steroid hormones (estrogens,
progesterone, androgens) and their receptors (ER, PR, AR) but the role
of glucocorticoids remains less well understood. Using our established
model in which IL-1β causes inflammation-associated senescence and
neurogenesis via the JNK signaling pathway, we studied the effects of
glucocorticoids on ESC responses to IL-1β stimulation and hormoneinduced
decidualization.
Methods: We delineated the effects of glucocorticoids on ESC responses
to IL-1β stimulation and hormone-induced decidualization by treating ESC
with different doses of IL-1β, cortisol (CORT), and methylprednisolone
(MP) at various time points. We measured senescence markers and the
activation of JNK, Erk1/2, and p38 MAPK pathways using western blot.
Outcome measures included Senescence-Associated Secretory Phenotype
(SASP) and ESC decidualization assessed by immunocytochemistry (ICC)
staining and ELISA assays in both cell lysates and culture supernatants.
Results: ICC showed strong auto-upregulation by IL-1β in ESCs and
this response was almost completely blocked by 1 μM CORT. Western
blot analysis revealed that 24-h IL-1β exposure significantly increased
expression of IL-1β precursor and SASP markers. Both CORT and MP
effectively inhibited IL-1β-induced activation of p-ERK1/2, p-p38 MAPK,
p-p70/85S6K, and p-p90RSK within 20 minutes. CORT or MP blocked
the effects of prolonged IL-1β exposure as assessed by SASP markers and
JNK signaling, including IL-1β, IL-6, p21, MMP3, JNK1, and JNK2. In
the presence of decidualizing hormones, IL-1β reduced PRL secretion by
about 40%, while CORT alone increased prolactin levels by over 50%.
β-actin levels remained constant, confirming the specificity of these effects.
Conclusion: Our previous studies demonstrated that IL-1β stimulates
ESC, rapidly increasing endogenous IL-1β levels and activating the
JNK, ERK1/2, and p38 MAPK signaling pathways, which, in turn, drive
senescence, neurogenesis, apoptosis, and impair decidualization and thus
contribute to both acute and chronic inflammation in the endometrium.
Exposure to glucocorticoids enhanced ESC decidualization by inhibiting
IL-1β activity and mitigated inflammatory aging “inflamm-aging”
by disrupting several IL-1β-induced inflammation-related signaling
pathways. These findings highlight potential strategies for reversing
inflammation-associated impairments in implantation or reducing pain
from endometriosis.
S-154
Investigation of Alterations to Endometrial Steroid Milieu After Luteal
Phase Oral Dexamethasone Administration. Hilary Critchley∗,1 Natalie
Homer,1 Moira Nicol,1 Mayank Madhra,1 Gregorio Naredo-Gonzalez,1 Ov
Slayden,2 Stephen Hillier,1 Brian Walker,1 Pamela Warner,1 Ruth Andrew.1
1University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; 2Oregon National
Primate Research Center, Beaverton, OR, United States.
Introduction: Heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) is debilitating, impacting
1 in 3 women. Having found an association between endometrial
glucocorticoid (Gc) deficiency and HMB, we trialled a novel therapeutic
strategy for HMB - rescue of putative Gc deficiency in endometrium with
oral dexamethasone (Dex) administration in the luteal phase. Our DexFEM
adaptive trial (doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2021.103434) showed oral Dex
reduced menstrual blood loss (MBL). Dex mechanisms of action could be
systemic, or local via other endocrine mediators. This research asks, after
two cycles of oral Dex: (1) Is Dex detectable in endometrium? (2) Does
circulating/ endometrial steroid milieu differ from untreated control cycle?
Methods: 6 women (41-50 years) referred with HMB to gynaecology in
NHS Lothian, UK. Paired design comprising untreated ‘Control’ menstrual
cycle, then 2 consecutive menstrual cycles with 0.75 mg oral Dex twice
daily for 5 days in mid-luteal phase. (REC:10/S1402/59). There was
blood and endometrial sampling in late luteal phase of both control and
2nd Dex-treated cycles. Dex and endogenous steroids were measured
by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry in serum (200 uL)
and endometrial tissue (~100 mg) following homogenisation/extraction.
Results: Dex was detected in serum and endometrium in treated cycles.
In 2nd Dex cycle, compared to Control, androgens were decreased in
serum only, while cortisol and cortisone were decreased in serum and
endometrium. In serum, cortisol was present in higher amounts than
cortisone, in both control and Dex-treated cycles, but in endometrium
the situation was reversed. The calculated ratio of cortisol to cortisone
increased after treatment in endometrium of all patients, but not in serum.
Conclusion: Our previous adaptive clinical trial showed oral Dex reduced
MBL. This experimental pharmacodynamic study has revealed that oral
Dex penetrates endometrial tissue, and has potential to modify endometrial
steroids and glucocorticoid concentrations. We infer that, instead of
systemic administration of Dex, as trialled, which has the potential for
suppressing adrenal steroids, local delivery also may alter the endometrial
glucocorticoid environment and be effective for treatment of HMB. HMB
treatment via local delivery of Dex should be explored
S-155
DDX21 Knockout Damaged the Fertility of Mice. Lina Chen, Kaiyuan
Ji, Huishu Liu. Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Maternal-Fetal Medicine,
Institute of Reproductive Health and Perinatology, Guangzhou Women and
Children’s Medical Center, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou,
China.
Introduction: The transcriptional regulator DExD-Box Helicase 21
(DDX21), which participates in regulating various RNA-related processes,
is upregulated in human myometrial tissues and myometrial smooth
muscle cells during labor, as indicated by our previous global and singlecell
transcriptome data. However, the effects of DDX21 on uterine function
and fertility remain unclear.
Methods: The Cre-loxP system was used to create uterine-specific
DDX21 knockout mice. We observed the pregnancy status of female
rats after mating with male mice, and recorded the number of offspring.
The morphological structure of uterus was examined using HE staining.
Results: Western blot analysis confirmed that the protein level of DDX21
in uterus tissue was significantly decreased in the PRcre/+-DDX21f/f group.
After mating with wild type male mice, PRcre/+-DDX21f/f female mice
did not produce any offspring. On the 7th day apost-mating, the uteri of
the mice were examined. It was found that while PRcre/+-DDX21f/f mice
had embryonic points in their uteri, the embryos were either deformed
or showed signs of resorption. Compared to the DDX21f/f group, the
uteri of PRcre/+-DDX21f/f virgin adult mice were shorter and thinner,
with significantly reduced length and diameter of the uterine horns.
The endometrial structure in PRcre/+-DDX21f/f mice is looser, lacking
endometrial glands and featuring thinner uterine smooth muscle layers.
Conclusion: This study shows that DDX21 is essential for the normal
uterine structure and function, as well as for fertility in mice. It provides
valuable resources for further research and points to potential targets for
treating uterine dysfunction and fertility issues.
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 263A
Saturday Posters
S-156
Decoding Metformin’s Impact on Adenomyosis Pathogenesis and
Infertility in Endometrial Organoids. Aitana Merino-Pérez†,1 Ana
Corachán†,1 Alba Bas-Rivas†,1 Carmen Vidal,2 Amparo Faus,1 Antonio
Pellicer,3 Hortensia Ferrero.1 1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVI
Foundation, IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2IVIRMA Global Research
Alliance, IVIRMA Valencia, Valencia, Spain; 3IVIRMA Global Research
Alliance, IVIRMA Rome, Rome, Italy.
Introduction: Adenomyosis is a benign condition characterized by the
presence of endometrial glands and stroma within the myometrium,
causing symptoms such as dysmenorrhea, abnormal uterine bleeding,
and infertility. These symptoms likely result from several key pathogenic
mediators, including local hyperestrogenism, inflammation, abnormal
uterine contractility, and neoangiogenesis. Metformin, a widely used
first-line treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus, has recently gained
attention for its pleiotropic therapeutic mechanisms and minimal side
effects. It is being studied as a potential treatment for various conditions,
including polycystic ovary syndrome, cancer, and endometriosis. We
hypothesized that metformin could regulate inflammation, angiogenesis
and decidualization in eutopic endometrium of women with adenomyosis,
potentially improving key pathogenic factors and related infertility.
Thus, metformin effect was studied using an adenomyosis endometrial
organoid model.
Methods: Patient-derived endometrial epithelial adenomyosis organoids
(n=3) were established and differentiated into secretory phase using
hormone supplementation (E2, P4 and cAMP) and further treated with
metformin (20 mM) for 48 hours. The impact of metformin on genes
related to adenomyosis pathogenesis and infertility was assessed by qRTPCR.
RNA was extracted for gene expression analysis of angiogenesis
(VEFGA), inflammation (IL-6, IL-8, and PTGS2) and endometrial
receptivity and decidualization (SPP1, LIF, PAEP and WNT4) biomarkers.
Results are shown as the average fold change ± standard deviation
compared to untreated cells (control, fold change =1).
Results: Metformin treatment significantly reduced the expression
of the angiogenic marker VEGFA (0.27 ± 0.23, p=0.03). In terms of
inflammation, metformin significantly decreased the pro-inflammatory
cytokine IL-6 (0.15 ± 0.05, p=0.001) and a reduction in the expression of
IL-8 (0.5 ± 0.44) and PTGS2 (0.4 ± 0.3) was also observed, although this
was not statistically significant. Regarding the endometrial receptivity and
decidualization, metformin did not exert any influence on the expression
of the decidualization markers SPP1, LIF, PAEP and WNT4.
Conclusion: Metformin treatment reduced the expression of inflammatory
and angiogenic genes in our adenomyosis endometrial organoid model. In
contrast, no effect on gene expression associated to endometrial receptivity
and decidualization was observed. Thus, metformin appears to be a
potential anti-inflammatory and anti-angiogenic agent and may serve as
an adjuvant in the adenomyosis-related infertility treatment.
S-157
Exosomal miRNA-Mediated Modulation of IL-17 Expression in Human
Decidual Stromal Cells by EVT Organoids. Jie Zhou,1 Lingwen Yuan,1
Balaji Rao,2 Steven L Young,1 Danny J. Schust.1 1Duke University, Durham,
NC, United States; 2NC State University, Raleigh, NC, United States.
Introduction: Interleukin-17 (IL-17) has complex actions in pregnancy
and is thought to mediate immune tolerance of the semi-allogeneic fetus.
IL-17 is present in the placentas of healthy pregnancies, is secreted by
Th17 cells during the first trimester, and it inhibits apoptosis in human
trophoblast cells. Elevated serum IL-17 concentrations have been
associated with preeclampsia and preterm birth, suggesting altered IL-17
signaling may contribute to pregnancy complications. This study explores
the role of miRNAs, a major component of exosomes, in modulating IL-17
expression during trophoblast-decidual interactions.
Methods: Small RNA sequencing reads were generated as in previously
work [MA Sheridan, 2021]. Predicted miRNA targeting genes were
obtained from the TransmiR v2.0 database. Human trophoblast stem
cells (hTSCs) were cultured under 3D conditions, as previously described
[J Zhou, 2023]. Conditioned media from d4 suspended 3D trophoblast
cultures and d7 3D extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cultures were collected.
Primary human endometrial stromal cells (ESC) were decidualized in
vitro using estradiol (E), progesterone (P), and a cAMP analog. Nondecidualized
cells served as controls [BJ Plante, 2012]. Decidualized
ESC were exposed to d4 suspended trophoblast 3D organoid or d7 EVT
organoids conditioned media for 48 hours. Decidualization was confirmed
by analyzing ESC expression of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein
1 (IGFBP-1) and prolactin (PRL) mRNA using qPCR. IL-17 mRNA levels
were assessed by qPCR to determine the impact of trophoblast-derived
factors on ESC IL-17 expression.
Results: Decidualization of ESCs increased IL-17 transcript levels with a
fold change of 1.5 (p < 0.05). Conditioned medium from EVT organoids
further enhanced IL-17 mRNA expression in both decidualized and nondecidualized
stromal cells, with fold changes of 30 and 5, respectively
(p < 0.05). miRNA profiling and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis
of in vitro 2D and 3D cultures revealed that the predicted target genes
of differentially expressed miRNAs were enriched in the Th17 cell
differentiation pathway, suggesting a potential link between EVT-derived
miRNAs and endometrial IL-17 regulation.
Conclusion: EVT organoids promote IL-17 expression in endometrial
stromal cells, with exosomal miRNAs likely playing a role in this process.
These findings suggest a novel role for exosomal miRNAs in modulating
the decidual immune microenvironment and highlight the significance of
IL-17 signaling in pregnancy.
S-158
Immune Gene Variants That Regulate the Uterine Microenvironment
Programme Cardiac Dysfunction in Adult Offspring in Mice. D. Duru†,
Y. Niu, N. Shreeve, D. A. Hawkes, F. Colucci, D. A. Giussani∗. University
of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Natural killer cells are abundant in the uterine
microenvironment (uNK) and they contribute to the maternal adaptation
to pregnancy and healthy fetal growth. NK-cell receptor (NKR) gene
variants are linked with pre-eclampsia and low birthweight (Moffett &
Shreeve. Nat Rev Immunol. 23(4):222-235, 2023). However, the role of
NKR gene variants in programming future risk of disease in the adult
offspring is completely unknown. Mice lacking the conserved inhibitory
NKR (NKG2A KO) show insufficient spiral artery remodelling, abnormal
utero-placental blood flow and fetal growth restriction (Shreeve et al.
Immunity. 54(6):1231-1244, 2021). Here, we tested the hypothesis that
NKR gene variants programme an increased cardiovascular risk in the
adult offspring by investigating cardiac function in adult offspring of
NKG2A KO dams.
Methods: Mice with a targeted Klrc1 deletion generated on a C57BL/6
background (Klrc1-/-) lacking NKG2A were a gift (Helmholtz-Zentrum,
München). We compared offspring generated from NKG2A KO fathers
x B6 mothers (Control, C) and from B6 fathers x NKG2A KO mothers
(NKG2A KO, KO). This experimental design permitted direct comparison
between genetically matched offspring developing in either NKG2Adeficient
or NKG2A-sufficient wombs. In addition, this strategy isolated
the effects of the maternal (Klrc1−/− or WT) from the offspring genotype
because the progeny was heterozygous in both groups. At 4 months
of adulthood, 1 male offspring per litter was euthanised and the heart
isolated to determine cardiac function via a Langendorff preparation. Data
(mean±SEM) for C (n=10) and KO (n=13) groups were compared with the
Student’s t test for unpaired data. Significance was accepted when P<0.05.
Results: Relative to C, offspring from KO which display growth
restriction at birth showed increased body weight at adulthood (29.3+0.6
vs. 31.5+0.7 g, P<0.05), indicating catch up postnatal growth. Relative
to C, hearts of KO offspring were heavier (0.14±0.01 vs. 0.16±0.01 g),
they showed similar left ventricular (LV) developed pressure (47.8±9.5
vs. 52.7±7.7 mmHg), but elevated LV end diastolic pressure (10.8±2.5
vs. 13.9±2.2 mmHg, P<0.05) and lower values for peak rate of relaxation
dP/dtmin (-915.1±106.9 vs. -1072.0±137.1, P<0.05), indicating significant
diastolic dysfunction.
Conclusion: The data support the hypothesis tested that immune gene
variants which regulate the uterine microenvironment programme cardiac
264A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
dysfunction in mice adult offspring. Therefore, NK cells not only influence
successful pregnancy, but they also have a role in modulating lifelong
cardiovascular health in the offspring.
Supported by the British Heart Foundation
S-159
Uterine Epithelial ERα Temporally Regulates Innate and Adaptive
Immunity during Early Pregnancy. Jonathan Hancock∗, Taylor Martin,
Li Yuehuan, Sundgren Jackson, Watford Wendy, Ye Xiaoqin. University
of Georgia, Athens, GA, United States.
Introduction: Infertility affects 30.1% of women globally. Early
pregnancy loss is a major contributor to infertility. Key early pregnancy
events include fertilization, embryo development and transport, and
embryo implantation. A natural pregnancy requires timely migration of
sperm through the uterus to the oviduct/Fallopian tube for fertilization.
A prerequisite for embryo implantation is the transient readiness of
the uterus, especially the uterine luminal epithelium (LE), for embryo
attachment to form the initial maternal-embryo connection. Sperm are
allogeneic and an embryo is semi-allogeneic to the biological mother
and allogeneic to a surrogate woman. How the uterine immune function
is temporally regulated to provide a conducive environment for sperm
and embryo during early pregnancy remains a significant knowledge
gap. Uterine functions during early pregnancy are orchestrated by the
master controller’s estrogen (E2) and progesterone. Uterine E2 functions
are mainly mediated through estrogen receptor α (ERα/Esr1). ERα
deficiency in the uterine luminal (LE) and glandular (GE) epithelium of
epiERα-/- (Esr1fl/-Wnt7aCre/+) mice leads to defective semen liquefaction
thus impaired sperm migration to the oviduct for fertilization, and
disrupted oviductal/uterine environments for embryos leading to failed
early pregnancy.
Methods: We hypothesize that uterine epithelial ERα temporally regulates
a conducive uterine immune environment for sperm and embryo to
support early pregnancy events. To study the molecular mechanisms, we
isolated LE cells from D0.5 and D3.5 Esr1fl/- (control) and epiERα-/- uteri
for mRNA-seq.
Results: We detected massive infiltration of neutrophils in un-liquified
semen of day 0.5 post-coitum (D0.5) epiERα-/- uterine lumen and LE
by immunohistochemistry and significantly increased percentage of
neutrophils in the D0.5 epiERα-/- uterus by flow cytometry. Thousands
of differentially expressed genes were identified in the D0.5 and D3.5
epiERα-/- LE compared to Esr1fl/- LE. Pathway analysis revealed that
the top 7 upregulated pathways in the D0.5 epiERα-/- LE are primarily
related to innate immune responses. Foremost among these is IL-1β
signaling, a quintessential proinflammatory cytokine and potent neutrophil
chemoattractant. By D3.5 prior to embryo attachment (~D4.0 in mice),
ERα-dependent innate immune dysregulation diminishes, and select genes
regulating adaptive immunity are upregulated in the D3.5 epiERα-/- LE.
Conclusion: We are investigating dynamic uterine cytokine profiles and
their regulation by uterine epithelial ERα during early pregnancy. Our
data reveal an essential function of uterine epithelial ERα in temporally
regulating the uterine immune environment to support early pregnancy.
S-160
Uterine Glucocorticoid Signaling Regulates Immune Cell Recruitment
in the Peri-Implantation Period. Victoria Wesevich†, Jennifer Davila†,
Cecilia Illuzzi†, Reshef Tal, Shannon D. Whirledge∗. Yale University,
New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: The recruitment, number, and phenotype of immune cells
present in the uterus during the peri-implantation period are critical to
pregnancy success. While signaling through the glucocorticoid receptor
(GR) plays a well-established role in general immune cell survival and
trafficking and we discovered that uterine glucocorticoid signaling
critically supports the establishment of pregnancy, the role of local
glucocorticoid signaling in regulating specific immune cell populations
in the uterus during the implantation period is unknown. We hypothesized
that impaired uterine glucocorticoid signaling would alter the number
and localization of specific uterine immune cell types. Mechanistically,
we hypothesized that altered immune cell numbers would result
from differences in glucocorticoid-regulated cytokine and chemokine
production from endometrial stromal cells.
Methods: Timed matings were performed with control and uterine-specific
GR knockout (UtGRKO) mice to obtain tissue for days post-coitus (dpc)
2.5, 5.5, and 8.5. Flow cytometry was used to identify total leukocytes,
as well as uterine natural killer cells, macrophages (M1 and M2), T-cells
(T-helper and T-regulatory), and dendritic cells. Staining patterns for
leukocytes and T-cells were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Transcript
levels of specific cytokines and chemokines were measured in decidualized
human endometrial stromal cells transfected with non-targeting control
(NTC) or siRNA targeting the GR gene (GRKD).
Results: No differences in immune cell number were identified in the
peripheral blood of pregnant control vs. UtGRKO mice. However, the
T-regulatory to T-helper cell ratio was 2.6-fold higher in the uterus of
UtGRKO mice compared to controls immediately post-implantation
(p=0.014). A sub-analysis by implantation site quality (normal vs. delayed
or resorbing) determined that dysregulation was predominantly driven
by a decrease in the number of CD4+ T-cells in the poorly developing
implantation sites of the UtGRKO mice (p=0.02). Quantification by
immunohistochemistry confirmed a significant decrease (p=0.027) in
the number of visualized CD4+ T-cells in UtGRKO mice at dpc 5.5.
Interestingly, the ratio of M2 to M1 macrophages was also dysregulated
post-implantation in the UtGRKO mice, with fewer macrophages present.
Transcript levels of CXCL12 and IL15 were significantly lower in GRKD
compared to NTC stromal cells (48% at p<0.0001 and 40% at p=0.019,
respectively).
Conclusion: This study is the first to assess the role of local glucocorticoid
receptor signaling in regulating immune cell populations during early
pregnancy. We discovered that impaired glucocorticoid signaling led to
significant changes in the number of ‘immunotolerant’ immune cell types
in the uterus, with associated changes in the transcriptional regulation of
relevant chemokines and cytokines.
S-161
Insulin Receptors and Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1 Receptors
Influence Embryo Implantation, Decidualization, and Activated
Immune Cell Populations. Jenna Douglas†, Caitlin McCracken, Cynthia
M.r. Francis†, Hayashi Kanako, James A. MacLean II∗. Washington State
University, Pullman, WA, United States.
Introduction: Diabetes type 1, 2, and gestational rates are increasing,
leading to more diabetic patients and high-risk pregnancies. Managing
diabetes during pregnancy is essential due to the greater risk for pregnant
individuals and embryos. A specific immune-resistant population is
necessary throughout pregnancy, and defects in innate and adaptive
responses can pose health risks. Pregnant individuals with Type 1
diabetes have an increased altered immune cell population in peripheral
blood. Similar results are observed with recurrent implantation failure.
We evaluated the immune cell population at various time points during
pregnancy through ablating insulin (INSR) and insulin-like growth
factor-1 (IGF1R) receptors in different areas of uterine tissue. Herein, we
present a novel investigation into immune cell population and localization
during early implantation in mice with defective uterine insulin signaling.
Methods: To evaluate insulin dysregulation in solely uterine tissue, we
generated 2 mouse models. Pgr-Cre driven ablation of INSR and IGF1R
(PgrIR-cKO ) and Amhr2-Cre driven ablation of INSR and IGF1R
(Amhr2IR-cKO) leads to ablation of receptors, respectively, in the uterine
stromal tissues and all tissues (epithelial, stromal, and myometrial).
PgrIR-cKO are infertile, and Amhr2IR-cKO are subfertile through reduced
decidualization and implantation defects.
Results: : RNA sequencing of Pgr-Cre driven INSR and IGF1R ablations
demonstrated downregulation of various immune cell functions, such
as natural killer cell activation and mediated immunity, leukocyte
migration, and cytotoxicity. We paired our RNA sequencing findings with
immunohistochemistry against CD68, IL-22, CD56 and CD31 at early
embryo gestation. Immune cells are quantified using ImageJ cell counter
software. We used Nanostring GeoMX technology to compare spatial
gene expression analysis between stromal and epithelial cells and cellular
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 265A
Saturday Posters
communication with the implanting embryo. To ensure the thoroughness
and validity of our analysis, we focused on INSR and IGF1R dual-ablated
uterine tissue, providing a comprehensive understanding of the gene
expression of known implantation genes, immune cell population, and
relative localization during early implantation.
Conclusion: Insulin receptors and Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor
influence embryo implantation, decidualization, and activated immune
cell populations in uterine tissue.
S-162
TLR8-Activating MiR-146a-3p Acts as an Intermediate Danger
Signal to Drive Fetal Membrane Inflammation in Response to
Bacterial Peptidoglycan. Hanah M Georges†, Abigail C Fischer, Vikki
M Abrahams∗. Yale University, New Haven, CT, United States.
Introduction: Preterm birth is often caused by chorioamnionitis. Fetal
membranes (FMs) express innate immune receptors, such as Toll-like
receptors (TLRs), which recognize and respond to pathogens by mediating
inflammatory chemokine IL-8 and cytokine IL-1β secretion. However, our
understanding of the intermediate signaling mechanisms involved remain
incomplete. A novel family of microRNAs (miRs) act as endogenous
danger signals by activating TLR7 or TLR8 to propagate inflammation. We
recently demonstrated a role for TLR8-activating miR-146a-3p in driving
FM inflammation in response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide. In this study
we sought to determine the role of TLR8-activating miR-146a-3p in FM
inflammatory responses to the TLR2 agonist, bacterial peptidoglycan
(PDG), and the signaling mechanisms involved.
Methods: Human FMs from healthy term pregnancies without labor (38-
41 weeks) were collected by caesarean-section, biopsied, and cultured as
intact explants. FMs were pretreated with or without inhibitors to: TLR7
(IRS661; 5μM); TLR8 (CUCPT9a; 10μM); p65 NFκB (BAY 11-7082;
10μM); p38 MAPK (SB203580; 0.5nM), or ERK (SCH77298; 10nM)
prior to treatment with media or PDG (10μg/ml). After 24 or 48 hr,
supernatants and FM tissues were collected. Supernatants were measured
for IL-1β and IL-8 by ELISA. FM RNA was measured for miR-146a-3p
by RT-qPCR. FM protein was probed for phosphorylated and total p65
NFκB, p38 MAPK, and ERK by Western Blot.
Results: PDG treatment increased FM IL-8 (5.8±1.3-fold) and IL-
1β (605.9±261.9-fold) secretion, and increased tissue miR-146a-3p
expression (1.5±0.2-fold) compared to media controls (p<0.05). TLR8
inhibition significantly reduced PDG-induced FM secretion of IL-8 by
45.2±6.8% and IL-1β by 49.6±15.9% (p<0.05). TLR7 inhibition has no
effect on FM secretion of IL-8 or IL-1β in response to PDG. Western
blot analysis showed that PDG increased FM phosphorylation of p65
NFκB by 3.6±0.8 fold; p38 MAPK by 1.3±0.2-fold (p<0.05), and ERK
by 6.3±1.6-fold (p<0.05). Inhibition of p65 NFκB, but not p38 MAPK
or ERK, reduced the miR-146a-3p response to PDG by 20.6±13.9%
(p<0.05). Inhibition of p65 NFκB, p38 MAPK or ERK significantly
reduced PDG-induced FM secretion of IL-8 (40.3±6.7%, 20.1±7.0%
and 26.2±7.2%, respectively) and IL-1β (67.7±9.2%, 53.4±12.9% and
63±7.7%, respectively).
Conclusion: TLR8-activating miR-146a-3p acts as an intermediate
danger signal to drive FM inflammation in response to bacterial PDG.
PDG-induced FM miR-146a-3p expression is mediated by p65 NFκB, while the downstream miR-146a-3p-TLR8-mediated chemotactic and
inflammasome-mediated inflammation is mediated by p65 NFκB, p38
MAPK and ERK signaling.
S-163
Comparison of Vaginal Mucosal Immune Response in Women Treated
with Rituximab and Untreated Controls. Ofri Bar†,1,2 Wafae El-Arar,1
Miles Goldenberg,1 Katherine Cosgrove,1 Gabriel Sauvage,1 Agnes
Bergerat,1 Briah Cooley Demidkina,1 Karen Laliberte,1 Douglas S Kwon,1,3
John Niles,1 Moran Yassour∗,4,5 Caroline M Mitchell∗.1,6 1Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, MA, United States; 2Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel; 3Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT, and Harvard,
Cambridge, MA, United States; 4Faculty of Medicine, Hebrew University
of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel; 5The Rachel and Selim Benin School of
Computer Science and Engineering, Jerusalem, Israel; 6Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA, United States.
Introduction: There is limited data on the impact of immunodeficiencies
on the female genital tract. We aimed to evaluate the impact of the B-cell
depleting immunotherapy rituximab (RTX) on the vaginal mucosal
immune response and endocervical immune cell populations.
Methods: We enrolled women treated with RTX for autoimmune disease
and healthy controls. Circulating B-cells proportions were measured using
flow cytometry of peripheral blood mononuclear cells for CD45+CD19+
populations. Disposable menstrual cups were used to collect vaginal fluid
for measurement of cytokines and immunoglobulins by Luminex. We
compared people on RTX vs. controls using chi square, Wilcoxon test or
multinomial logistic regression adjusting for menopause.
Results: We enrolled 26 controls (6 postmenopausal) and 26 people on
RTX (11 postmenopausal). Proportions of circulating CD45+CD19+ B
cells were significantly lower in the RTX group compared to the controls
(p< 0.0005). IgG4 levels were significantly reduced in patients on RTX
treatment compared to controls (p = 0.021), but IgA, IgM, IgG1, IgG2,
IgG3 and IgE were not different. Several cytokines that are involved
in IgG4 class switching were significantly elevated in patients on RTX
treatment compared to controls (IL10, IL13, IL21 and IL4, P<0.05). Some
cytokines involved in pro-inflammatory responses were also significantly
elevated in patients on RTX compared to controls (IL17, IL23, ITAC and
TNFα, p<0.005), however IL8 was higher in controls (p=0.049).
Conclusion: B-cell depleting immunotherapy is associated with a
significant reduction in IgG4 levels in vaginal fluid. Additionally,
cytokines involved in IgG4 class switching and pro-inflammatory
responses were significantly elevated in patients on RTX compared to
controls. These findings suggest that depletion of circulating B cells
may alter vaginal mucosal immune regulation resulting in selective loss
of IgG4.
S-164
Shaping the Future of Ovarian Bioengineering: Derivation Techniques
and Characterization of Healthy Ovarian Organoids. María GómezÁlvarez†,
1 Emilio Francés-Herrero†,1 Marcos Agustina-Hernández†,1
Clara Bueno-Fernandez†,1,2 Paula Alonso-Frías†,1 Amparo Faus†,1 Antonio
Pellicer∗,3 Irene Cervelló∗.1 1IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVI
Foundation, IIS La Fe, Valencia, Spain; 2Universitat de València, Valencia,
Spain; 3IVIRMA Global Research Alliance, IVIRMA Roma, Rome, Italy.
Introduction: Organoids represent a groundbreaking tool in female
reproductive biology, simulating the structure and function of reproductive
organs. While well-established protocols exist for endometrial and
oviductal organoids, methods for deriving healthy ovarian organoids
(OvaOs) remain underexplored, as most research focuses on ovarian
cancer models. Here, our objectives are: (i) to describe an effective
protocol for deriving healthy OvaOs from the ovarian surface epithelium
(OSE); (ii) to assess their passaging, freezing, and thawing capabilities for
long-term line establishment; and (iii) to confirm their epithelial origin
via histological characterization.
Methods: OvaOs were derived from bovine ovaries (n = 5) using a
mechanical protocol based on ovarian cortex scratching. Specifically, they
were seeded in Matrigel and cultured with a specific medium. To determine
their capability as long-term lines, we performed 9 serial passages, as
well as freezing and thawing processes, both evaluated by cell viability
assays. Histological characterization of OvaOs was conducted with H&E
staining, and immunofluorescence (IF) was used to evaluate well-defined
266A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
OSE markers, specifically Cytokeratin 18 (CK18), Vimentin (VIM),
NANOG, and CD44. To discard the presence of fimbrial oviductal cells,
the Paired box gene-8 protein (PAX8) was tested.
Results: The mechanical protocol generated sufficient cellular material
(>106 cells/ml) for ovarian cell seeding. After 3 days of culture, OSE cells
regrouped into OvaOs surrounded by stromal cells. Interestingly, OvaOs
remained viable after up to 9 passages, whereas stromal cells progressively
disappeared after passaging. Additionally, the OvaOs preserved their
viability following a freeze-thaw cycle, as confirmed by cell viability
assays (94%). H&E confirmed the typical spherical structure of OvaOs.
IF analysis revealed positive expression of CK18, VIM, NANOG, and
CD44; while PAX8 negativity confirmed the absence of fimbrial oviductal
cells and ensured OSE cell purity.
Conclusion: Our study describes for the first time an efficient protocol
for generating healthy bovine ovarian organoid lines (confirmed by
histological analysis), which can be propagated through passages, and
successfully frozen and thawed. Given the significant similarities between
bovine and human ovaries, this protocol could be adapted for human
ovarian bioengineering, resulting in new opportunities for studying
follicle development and advancing treatments for reproductive disorders.
S-165
Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Natural Killer Cells Transcriptionally
Resemble First Trimester Decidual, Not Peripheral Blood, NK Cells.
Virginia Chu Cheung†, Jaroslav Slamecka, Harneet Arora, Devika Pant,
Dan S Kaufman, Mariko Horii, Jack D. Bui, Mana Parast∗. UC San Diego,
La Jolla, CA, United States.
Introduction: Decidual natural killer cells (dNK) are the most abundant
immune cells at the maternal-placental interface in early gestation.
Abnormal dNK function has been associated with multiple pregnancy
complications including recurrent spontaneous pregnancy loss and
preeclampsia. We have recently shown that induced pluripotent stem
cells (iPSC) can be differentiated into CD56brightCD16-CD9+CD103+
dNK-like cells. We now sought to evaluate the transcriptional profile of
these iPSC-derived NK cells.
Methods: Two iPSC lines were differentiated into hematopoietic stemprogenitor
cells, then differentiated into NK cells in presence of IL3, IL7,
IL15, FLT3L, and SCF for 28-35 days. The resulting iPSC-derived NK
cells were expanded for 2 weeks with or without TGFβ and expression of
dNK-associated cell surface markers were confirmed by flow cytometry.
We processed the cells for 10x single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNAseq).
Cell ranger v7.2.0 and Seurat v5.0.3 were used for analysis. Standard
preprocessing, normalization and scaling were applied. We evaluated the
expression of NK marker genes (NKG7, PTPRC, and NCAM1) as well as
dNK marker genes (ITGA1 and GNLY). We then mapped this dataset to
a previously published scRNAseq dataset containing peripheral blood,
and first trimester placental villi and decidua (Vento-Tormo et al., Nature,
2018) for comparison.
Results: At the end of expansion, the majority of iPSC-derived NK cells
were CD56brightCD16-(83%+12% without TGFβand 97%+2% with). CD9
expression was increased from 52%+11% to 87%+2% and CD103 was
increased from 13%+4% to 82%+10% by TGFβ. scRNAseq analysis
confirmed the expression of NK and dNK marker genes; gene ontology
analysis of the 436 genes upregulated the presence of TGFβ ( average
log2fold change >1.5, adjusted p-value < 0.05) by MSigDB Hallmark
(2020) confirmed TGFβ signaling as and the topmost enriched pathway.
Querying the entire iPSC-NK dataset against the Vento-Tormo dataset
mapped 91% of the iPSC-NK to primary dNK regardless of TGFβ
treatment.
Conclusion: We have successfully established an iPSC differentiation
protocol to obtain dNK-like cells as measured by flow cytometry and
scRNAseq. Intriguingly, TGFβ treatment increased expression of dNK
cell surface markers but did not result in increased transcriptional
similarity to dNK. This suggests that careful consideration should be
applied when identifying cell types defined by transcriptome analysis or
protein expression alone. Patient-specific iPSC-derived dNK can be used
as a renewable and manipulatable resource to study the role of dNK at
the maternal-fetal interface, in context of known reproductive outcomes.
These cells can also provide a platform for the development of therapeutics
for endometrial and placenta-based pregnancy complications.
S-166
Prescribing Prevalence of Medications with Potential Genotype-Guided
Dosing in Pregnant Patients. Elizabeth A Jasper, Catherine Gascoigne,
Sarah Jones, Salisha Marryshow Batson†, Darlene Fountain, Digna R
Velez Edwards∗. Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN,
United States.
Introduction: Pregnant persons are often excluded from pharmacogenetic
research. Studies in this population are critically needed as they possess
distinct physiology and may be at risk for toxicities. Evidence on
prescribing patterns of medications with pharmacogenetic associations
could aid in implementation of pharmacogenetic research in this
population. Our objective was to assess potential opportunities for
genotype-guided prescribing among pregnant patients in a U.S. healthcare
system.
Methods: We utilized Vanderbilt University Medical Center’s Synthetic
Derivative, a de-identified electronic health record database. Two cohorts
were created that included individuals who experienced a pregnancy and
had recorded gestational age at delivery. Cohort 1 contained individuals
who were pregnant on the date of initiation of the drug of interest, while
cohort 2 included individuals who were taking the drug of interest
anytime in the 16 weeks prior to the estimated date of conception and
continued to take the drug after conception. Within these cohorts, we
examined the prevalence of prescriptions with Clinical Pharmacogenetics
Implementation Consortium (CPIC) Level A evidence in first pregnancies.
Results: There were 44,725 pregnant persons who initiated drugs during
their pregnancy (Cohort 1) and 4,336 who were taking a drug prior to
pregnancy and continued to take it throughout pregnancy. Prescription
of at least one Level A drug during pregnancy was common (<80%). For
those initiating medications in pregnancy, the most frequently prescribed
Level A evidence drugs were ondansetron (84.4%) and ibuprofen (82.0%).
A smaller percentage of the cohort received antibiotics (gentamicin, 9.6%),
an antidepressant (e.g., sertraline, citalopram, escitalopram, <4.0%), or a
proton pump inhibitor (omeprazole, pantoprazole, lansoprazole, <3.0%).
Ibuprofen (38.6%) and ondansetron (29.8%) were also the most common
drugs initiated shortly before conception but taken throughout pregnancy.
Though not as common, use of antidepressants (<5.0%) or a proton pump
inhibitor (<5.0%) in the pre-pregnancy period and continuation after
pregnancy was also observed. Few individuals (<3.0%) were exposed to
analgesics (tramadol or codeine) or vasodilators (hydralazine or warfarin)
during pregnancy.
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that there are abundant opportunities
for genotype-guided prescribing and pharmacogenetic research in
pregnant persons. Unsurprisingly, the greatest opportunity in the
population who initiated medication during pregnancy lie in drugs
indicated for common pregnancy experiences (e.g., pain and nausea and
vomiting). Antidepressants also offer an opportunity for implementing
pharmacogenetic guidelines prior to or during pregnancy.
S-168
Network Analysis Reveals a Complex Relationship Between
the Cervicovaginal Environment, Body Mass Index (BMI) and
Spontaneous Preterm Birth (SPTB). Flavia Flaviani, Amirah Mohd Zaki,
Alicia Hadingham, Jiadai Mi†, Victoria Horrocks, Natasha Hezelgrave,
Natalie Suff, Paul Seed, Andrew Shennan, James A Mason, Rachel M
Tribe∗. King’s College London, London, United Kingdom.
Introduction: Studies report an association between vaginal health
(Lactobacillus crispatus dominance) with term pregnancy, and a diverse
microbiome or L. iners with SPTB [1]. However, some women who
deliver at term (often those reporting African ancestry) present with a
diverse microbiota/L iners dominance. A more in-depth investigation
of the vaginal environment and clinical phenotyping is needed. We
interrogated the complex relationship between the cervico-vaginal fluid
Scientific Abstracts Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 267A
Saturday Posters
(CVF) metagenome, metabolome and inflammatory markers, BMI and
SPTB using network analysis. We undertook a validation study of our
metabolite-based biomarker test for prediction of SPTB.
Methods: A subset of 87 women self-reporting African ancestry (with
clinical data and 10-15+6 week CVF samples) were identified from
the INSIGHT cohort [2]. Microbial DNA was isolated from swabs for
whole genome shotgun sequencing and metabolite (NMR) and cytokines,
immunoglobulin, and complement analysis (Luminex) measured in CVF.
Taxonomical and functional profiling performed using VIRGO (https://
github.com/ravel-lab/VIRGO). Downstream analyses performed in R
(v 4.1.2). Taxa data were clustered into modules using unsupervised
weighted gene correlation network analysis (WGCNA). STATA was used
for prediction modelling.
Results: BMI significantly influenced the CVF metagenome and
metabolome and SPTB. Correcting for BMI revealed individual bacteria
and metabolite associations with preterm birth. WGCNA revealed modules
that significantly correlated with gestation at birth, BMI, cervical length
at visit and inflammatory markers. Our previous metabolite predictor of
preterm birth risk showed moderate performance that was improved by
inclusion of BMI.
Conclusion: WGCN analysis provides insight into how bacterial networks
shape the cervico-vaginal environment and influence cervical length and
gestation at birth. This also highlighted the impact of BMI on the vaginal
environment.
Acknowledgements: Borne Foundation, NIHR, Rosetrees Trust, Hub for
Applied Bioinformatics, CRN team and participants.
S-169
Machine Learning Maximizes Extracellular Vesicle Production for
Drug Delivery Applications. Snehi Shrestha†, Robert Kirian†, Po-Yen
Chen∗, Hannah C Zierden∗. University of Maryland, College Park, MD,
United States.
Introduction: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are lipid-bound nanoparticles
produced by all cells. EVs carry small molecule, nucleic acid, and protein
cargoes which facilitate long-distance cellular communication. Given
their innate targeting properties, barrier crossing abilities, and lower
immunogenicity and toxicity compared to synthetic lipid nanoparticle
formulations, EVs represent a promising therapeutic modality.1 However,
for clinical translation to become a reality, we must improve our ability to
control, produce, and isolate EVs. Here, we demonstrate that tuning culture
properties allows us to control EV properties. Further, by employing
machine learning algorithms we can predict the parameters within the
design space that result in EVs of a desired size, surface charge, and
concentration. Our work has important implications for manufacturing
EV-based therapeutics by eliminating the trial-and-error workflow used
to selectively tune EV characteristics.
Methods: The effects of culture conditions on EV characteristics were
investigated in 2D culture. Lactobacillus crispatus was seeded onto
MRS agar plates and passaged to MRS broth culture. Culture conditions
including oxygen saturation, carbon source, pH, and temperature were
manipulated at the 50 mL scale. EVs were harvested from 50 mL cultures
via differential centrifugation 9 days after seeding. Nanoparticle tracking
analysis (NTA) characterized particle size and charge. Isothermal
calorimetry monitored cell metabolic rate to determine harvest
time. Colony forming units (CFUs) quantified microbial expansion.
Experimental data defined boundaries for active learning and data
augmentation to build a predictive model to predict EV properties based
on culture conditions.
Results: We identified culture parameters that affect EV characteristics
and manufacturability. EVs produced by microbes cultured with fructose
or galactose were ~50 nm smaller than particles isolated from microbes
cultured with maltose or sucrose. EVs produced by microbes cultured
in acidic conditions (<5.5 pH) were more neutral than EVs from basic
cultures (>7.5 pH). We observed a 50% increase in particles produced
at 30oC compared to 37oC. Further, we developed a predictive model to
determine culture conditions to manufacture EVs with desired properties.
Conclusion: Here, we demonstrate the effects of culture parameters
on EV characteristics and use machine learning approaches to improve
the manufacturability of EVs for use in next generation therapeutic
development. This novel use of machine learning approaches eliminates
trial-and-error approaches used in designing and manufacturing EV-based
nanotherapeutics and increase clinical translation of these biological
nanoparticles for a wide range of diseases.
S-170
Building Grassroots Community in Biomedical Engineering Towards
Women’s Health: ElevateHER. Erika Moore Taylor∗,1 Shreya A
Raghavan∗.2 1University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States;
2Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, United States.
Introduction: Women’s Health is significantly underfunded, and
consequently understudied. Collectively, the underfunding and underinvestigation
create a pervasive knowledge gap in our fundamental
understanding of physiology and pathophysiology related to women’s
health. Biomedical engineering has long led the charge for fundamental
discovery in biology by integrating biomaterial tools with cellular and
molecular bioengineering. Regenerative medicine, in particular, has the
potential not just for discovery but also provides tremendous translational
opportunities to better the quality of women’s lives. Examples of these
technologies include but are not limited to innovations in biomaterials,
in vitro model systems, mechanobiology and biomechanics, accessible
technologies like sensors, optics and photonics-based tools. Currently,
these innovations occur in insular pockets and remain siloed within
technical fields, without coalescing under the umbrella of ‘women’s
health’.
Methods: In response to an urgent need to organize diverse engineering
approaches into cohesively addressing the knowledge gap in women’s
health, we organized a grassroots NSF-funded conference entitled
ElevateHER: Engineering Innovations for Women’s Health Discovery.
The conference convened a select group of 30 biomedical engineers and
scientists who worked across two days to meet conference goals.
Results: On Day 1, attendees first familiarized each other with the
biomedical technological innovations available. Day 1 ended with
brainstorming ways in which engineering strategies may be applied across
the spectrum of women’s health including but not limited to maternal
and fetal health, gynecology and oncology, and immunity. On Day 2,
attendees synthesized actionable steps towards achieving the integration
of women’s health and biomedical engineering. A need for stakeholder
engagement across physician scientists was identified, with a need for
engineers to create outreach in this space (for eg: at SRI). Other identified
needs included the creation and standardization of biorepositories,
benchtop models, and research protocols to collectively drive engineering
innovations in women’s health.
Conclusion: ElevateHER was the first attempt to intentionally bring
together biomedical engineers under the umbrella of women’s health
engineering. We will continue to build on the momentum created by
this conference, to sustain the integration of biomedical engineering
in women’s health, and create inclusive spaces for collaboration and
scientific discovery. This work was funded by NSF CBET Award no.
2422973 (SAR and EMT).
S-171
Delivery versus Expectant Management in Health Economic Studies:
When Conflict of Interest Exists in Maternal and Fetal Patients. Swetha
Ganesan†, Nithya Sivakumar†, Jasivet Chavez-Rivera†, Brenda Martinez-
Puente†, Marissa Harris†, Rainney Chiu†, Nayab Mehmood†, Lihong
Mo∗. University of California, Davis School of Medicine, Sacramento,
CA, United States.
Introduction: Perinatal conditions may present conflicts between maternal
and fetal health. These conflicts complicate shared clinical decision
making, as providers are asked to weigh maternal and fetal interests when
counseling their patients, often in the absence of randomized clinical
trials. As such, it is crucial for health economic studies to be robust in
their consideration of maternal and fetal outcomes. The objective of this
study was to systematically examine current methodologies for accounting
for both maternal and fetal health in health economic studies comparing
delivery timing in term pregnancies.
268A Reproductive Sciences Vol. 32, Supplement 1, March 2025 Scientific Abstracts
Methods: We conducted a systematic review of health economic studies
regarding delivery versus expectant management in term pregnancies. The
search strategy included terms related to "pregnancy," "quality-adjusted
life years (QALY)," and related terms in Medline and EMBASE databases.
Using a modified CHEERS checklist, we assessed and compared the
methodology employed in these studies.
Results: Out of 2,040 studies screened, 7 papers met inclusion criteria,
analyzing active management of labor curves and induction of labor at
39 versus 41 weeks. For willingness-to-pay, 6/7 papers used a threshold
of $100,000 USD/QALY; the other paper used a threshold of 500,000
SEK/QALY (€50,000 EUR/QALY). With regards to analytic methods,
only 4/7 papers included tornado plots to specify variables with the
most significant impact on QALY. For outcomes, 3/7 papers considered
irreversible maternal outcomes, 4/7 papers considered neonatal shoulder
dystocia/brachial plexus injuries, and 4/7 papers considered neonatal
death as an outcome of interest.
Conclusion: Health economic studies comparing delivery versus
expectant management in term pregnancies lack standardization in
willingness-to-pay thresholds, QALY calculation and analytic methods,
and outcomes considered, leading to methodological variability and
ambiguity in evidence. This inconsistency complicates interpretation
across studies and directly impacts clinical decision-making for both
physicians and patients. Given the complexity of balancing maternal
and fetal interests, a standardized approach for reporting perinatal health
economic studies is urgently needed.